
BEYOND CANDLESTICKS..............................................................................
"Learningis Like Rowing Upstream; Not to Advanceis to Fall Back"
......................................................................................
~--_..
BEYOND
CANDLESTICKS
.....................................................................................
New Japanese Charting Techniques
Revealed
STEVE NISON
JOHN WILEY & SONS, INC.
New York • Toronto • Chichester • Brisbane • Singapore
WILEY FINANCE EDITIONS
The New Technical Trader I Chande and Kroll
Trading on the Edge I Deboeck
Forecasting Financial and Economic Cycles I Niemira and Klein
Trader Vic II I Sperandeo
Genetic Algorithms and Investment Strategies I Bauer
Understanding Swaps I Marshall
Fractal Market Analysis I Peters
Trading Applications of Japanese Candlestick Charting / Wagner and
Matheny
Fixed-Income Arbitrage I Wong
Trading for a Living I Elder
The Day Trader's Manual I Eng
The Mathematics of Money Management I Vince
Intermarket Technical Analysis I Murphy
The Foreign Exchange and Money Markets Guide I Walmsley
Chaos and Order in the Financial Markets I Peters
Portfolio Management Formulas I Vince
Financial Statement Analysis / Fridson
Money Management Strategies for Futures Traders I Balsara
Dynamic Asset Allocation I Hammer
Relative Dividend Yield I Spare
Inside the Financial Futures Markets, 3rd Edition / Powers and
Castelino
Option Market Making I Baird
Fixed-Income Synthetic Assets I Beaumont
Selling Short I Walker
The New Technology of Financial Management I Chorafas
Managed Futures in the Institutional Portfolio I Epstein
Analyzing and Forecasting Futures Prices I Herbst
Forecasting Financial Markets I Plummer
A Complete Guide to Convertible Securities Worldwide I Zublake
Corporate Financial Risk Management I Wunnicke and Wilson
Investing in Intangible Assets I Parr
Treasury Operations and the Foreign Exchange Challenge I Chorafas
Trading and Investing in Bond Options I Wong
•
...__---------~-."-'.. "' .. 'm
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS..............................................................................
"You Cannot Clap With One Hand"
A Japanese book that I had translated said that: "Japanese charts are
frequently considered secretive. The number of people who know the
essentials of these charts are few and reference material is scarce. 111 This
paucity of material was particularly true with some of the new techniques
revealed in the second part of this book. However, thanks to the help of
some important individuals, I was able to uncover many previously hid­
den aspects of Japanese technical analysis.
Without the assistance of the translating done by Richard Solberg, it
would have been almost impossible to write this book-or my first one!
Not only did Richard ably do the translating, but equally important was
his tenacity in finding and obtaining the Japanese books I needed for my
basic research. Richard has been one of my most vital resources.
As with my first book, I had the help of knowledgeable Japanese
traders who helped refine my knowledge by sharing valuable insights
obtained from their years of experience.
Mr. Hiroshi Okamoto, Director at Nomura Investment Trust, Mr. Ya­
suhi Hayashi, Senior Trader at Sumitomo Life Insurance, Mr. Nori Ha­
yashi, Investment Manager at Barclays Trust, and other members from
the Nippon Technical Analysts Association (NTAA) in Japan were all very
gracious. I am sure many of my questions may have seemed very rudi­
mentary to them, but they were patient and open about sharing their
knowledge. Without their insights, this book would be much less de­
tailed.
Mr. Kiyohiko Yoshizawa, vice president at Paine Webber, provided
vii
viii Acknowledgments
valuable new facts and insights about the candles during our numerous
meetings.
One of my most important contacts was Mr. Yoji Inata, a correspon­
dent for Reuters. Mr. Inata's assistance was critical for the new tools
addressed in this book; we spent many hours together. Not only did he
take his valuable time to review some of the new techniques to make
sure I correctly understood the ideas, but he also took the extra step of
conferring with his Japanese colleagues on points about which he was
not 100% sure. Mr. Inata said that he enjoyed our studying together. I
think he was being polite. Although I may have contributed to his knowl­
edge in some respects, for the most part I was the student. I was fortunate
to have had a gracious, knowledgeable, and friendly teacher.
Thanks again goes to my friend, Bruce Kamich. A true professional,
he continues to provide me with a stream of insightful and helpful ideas.
The editor of this book, Susan Barry, was also the editor of my first
book. Susan had the foresight to see how brightly the interest in the
candles would burn. She was a major factor in my choice of John Wiley
& Sons to publish this book. I hope Susan does not decide to move to a
publishing firm in the Antarctic. If I ever do a third book, I would have
to follow her.
As an English poet said: "Where ignorance is bliss, wisdom is folly."
Before writing my first book, I was blissfully ignorant of all the time and
effort that goes into such a project. That book, made me aware of how
difficult the process is. Because of this, I had no desire to go through it
all again. However, Dodge Dorland, Chief Investment Officer of Landor
Investment Management (New York, NY), gave me the push to do this
second book. Dodge uses candles to trade stocks on an intra-day basis
and has been one of the earliest proponents of candles. Anyone who has
dealt with Dodge can vouch for his amiability and for his knowledge.
Many of the charts in this book are from the MetaStock software by
EQUIS International (Salt Lake City, UT). Without their assistance in
providing me with the new software to draw the kagi, three-line break,
and renko charts, this book would be much less detailed. Their excellent
software, and helpful and knowledgeable staff makes MetaStock a plea­
sure to use. For those interested in finding out more about the MetaStock
software, there is a coupon included at the back of this book. The data
used for the Metastock charts was from Dial-Data (Brooklyn, NY). I found
their data accurate and easily accessible.
I would like to thank Shahrokh Nikkhah whose early appreciation of
my work and desire to make available the many advantages of candlestick
analysis to his clients brought about my joining his team where we offer
advisory and brokerage services at Daiwa Securities America. I would
also thank my colleague, Mark Tunkel for taking the time to help proof-
•
Acknowledgments ix
read this book.
In this, as in my first book, you will see many CQG charts (Glenwood
Springs, CO). They are a real-time graphics charting service. CQG was
among the first services in the West to offer candle charts to their clients.
I have used their service for many years. The accuracy of their data and
their support personnel, such as Steve Onstad in New York, make this
a premier real-time charting service. Their excellent worldwide reputation
is well justified.
Reuters Ltd. (New York, London, and Tokyo) have also provided
charts for this project. Their RTA technical analysis real-time charting
product offers some unique capabilities. I have had the pleasure of giving
a series of seminars for them throughout Europe. The fact that Reuters
has gone through the time, effort, and expense to send me to Europe for
these seminars shows how committed they are in meeting the educational
needs of their clients.
My first book, Japanese Candlestick Charting Techniques, was written
around the same time as the birth of my son, Evan. (At the time of Evan's
birth, I frightened my wife, Bonnie, when I said I was going to name
him "Candlesticks Nison.") Evan is now four, and he enjoys "typing"
on my keyboard. I tell you this so that if there are typos, I now have an
excuse. My daughter, Rebecca, is eight and very bright. I have jokingly
said that I wanted this book easy enough for a child to understand, so I
think I'll ask her to proofread these pages (yet another excuse if you find
any mistakes!). Finally, there is my loving and patient wife, Bonnie, who
understands that it is great to have written, but most difficult to write.
Final thanks go to those who provided another incentive for writing
this book-the credit card companies and the bank that has my mortgage.
Note
lOyama, Kenji, p. 51.
1M ""
CONTENTS..............................................................................
PART ONE: CANDLES
&
INTRODUCTION
Chapter 1 OVERVIEW
Chapter 2 THE BASICS
History of the candle charts, 13
Evolution of the candle charts, 16
Construction of the candle line, 18
Real body and shadows, 20
The real body, 20
Long white real bodies, 20
Long white at a low price level, 21
Long white candle confirms support, 21
Long white body breaks resistance, 23
Long white real bodies as support, 25
Long black real body at high price area, 29
Long black confirms resistance, 30
Long black breaks support, 31
Long black as resistance, 33
Size and frequency of real bodies, 35
Opening compared to prior real body, 38
Spinning tops, 40
3
7
13
xi
xii Contents
Accumulation and distribution, 42
Doji, 45
Shadows, 50
High-wave candles, 52
Chapter 3 THE PA TIERNS
Single candle lines, 56
The hammer, 56
The hanging man, 59
The shooting star, 64
Dual candle lines, 68
Dark cloud cover, 68
The piercing pattern, 73
The engulfing patterns, 76
Last engulfing patterns, 84
Harami,86
The window, 93
Three windows, 102
Two black gapping candles, 105
Gapping doji, 106
Three or more candle lines, 109
The evening star, 109
The morning star, 117
Record sessions, 121
55
Chapter 4 CANDLES AND THE OVERALL TECHNICAL PICTURE 129
Stops, 130
Risk/reward, 133
Trend, 137
Becoming a market chameleon, 142
Computers and candles, 144
The importance of where a candle appears, 144
The question of determining specific criteria for the pattern,
145
Placing the trade, 147
When to offset a trade, 148
Contents xiii
PART 2: THE DISPARITY INDEX AND NEW
PRICE CHARTS
INTRODUCTION
Chapter 5 HOW THE JAPANESE USE MOVING AVERAGES
The golden and dead cross, 157
The disparity index, 159
Trading with the disparity index, 159
The divergence index, 164
Chapter 6 THREE-LINE BREAK CHARTS
Construction of three-line break charts, 168
Trading with three-line break charts, 174
White and black lines as buy & sell signals, 174
Three-line break charts and candle charts, 176
Three-line break charts and trend, 178
Other break charts, 181
Extra confirmation of a trend reversal, 182
Black shoe, white and black suits, and a neck, 184
Record sessions and three-line break charts, 186
Western patterns and three-line break charts, 187
153
157
167
PRACTICE SESSION FOR THE THREE-LINE BREAK
CHART 191
Chapter 7 RENKO CHARTS 197
Construction of renko charts, 199
Trading techniques with renko charts, 203
Zi
PRACTICE SESSION FOR THE RENKO CHART
Chapter 8 KAGI CHARTS
Construction of kagi charts, 215
Using percentage kagi charts, 219
207
213
xiv Contents
Trading techniques with kagi charts, 220
Buy on yang, sell on yin, 220
Shoulders and waists, 221
Multi-level breaks, 224
Length of yang and yin, 224
Where corrections stop within the prior kagi line, 226
Double windows, 227
Trendlines, 231
Tweezers, 232
Three-Buddha and reverse three-Buddha, 233
Record sessions, 235
PRACTICE SESSION FOR THE KAGI CHART
CONCLUSION
GLOSSARY
BIBLIOGRAPHY
INDEX
241
247
249
273
275
• • • •• •• •• •• • • •• • •• • • • • •• • • •• • • • • • • • • •• • •• •
PART 1
CANDLES
• •• • •• • • • • • • • • • •• • • •• • • • • • •• •• • • •• ••• • •• • •
+A+~
"Let Every Bird Sing its Own Song"
• •• • • •• • •••• • ••• • •• • •• • ••••••• •••••• ••• • • •
INTRODUCTION..............................................................................
A chart is like a map, the more information each one provides, the better
the chance of reaching your destination safely. Candle charts display a
more detailed and accurate map of the market than do bar charts. A
Japanese book that I had translated stated, ''It is not an exaggeration to
say that candlesticks are the best in the world and a very exquisite cre­
ation for charts."l This is because, as detailed below, candle charts open
new avenues of analysis and offer many advantages over bar charts:
1. Candle charts will pictorially display the supply-demand situation by
showing who is winning the battle between the bulls and the bears.
Bar charts do not.
2. Like bar charts, candle charts will show the trend of the market, but
candle charts add another dimension of analysis by revealing the force
behind the move.
3. Bar chart techniques can often take weeks to transmit a reversal signal.
However, candle charts will often send out clues of imminent reversals
in one to three sessions. The result is that candle charts often provide
the opportunity for more timely trades.
These are just some reasons why the flames of interest in candle charts
grow ever brighter. In just a few years, candle charts have joined bar
charts and point and figure charts as a basic charting technique.
Candle charts are drawn using the same data as bar charts (the open,
high, low, and close), so they send all the same signals that can be found
on bar charts. Yet, as just discussed, the candles offer many advantages
over bar charts, so using candle charts instead of bar charts is a win-win
situation. When you use bar charts you only get bar chart signals. But,
with candle charts you get all the bar chart signals, plus you gain the
3
4 Candles
unique and powerful insights provided by the candles. So, why use a
bar chart?
Because the Japanese are major players in most of the world's mar­
kets, there is strong interest in how the Japanese use their technicals to
trade. Candles are the most popular form of technical analysis in Japan.
The importance of the candles for the Japanese trading community is
illustrated in the following quote from the European magazine, Euroweek.
This article quotes an English trader who works at a Japanese bank. He
states: "All the Japanese traders here-and that's in the foreign exchange,
futures and equities markets-use the candles. It might be difficult to
work out the billions of dollars traded in London on interpretations of
these charts each day, but the number would be significant."?
Think about it: Although billions are traded every day based on the
candle chart signals, until recently we had no knowledge of how the
Japanese viewed the market with their technicals. This is hard to believe.
Knowing the candles and their other technical tools discussed in this
book may help answer the question, "What are the Japanese going to do
next? "
Years ago, I met with the head of technical analysis for one of Japan's
largest life insurance companies (this Japanese trader wanted to meet
with me to learn how I used western technicals to trade). When he walked
into my office, he saw I had candle charts on my desk. In a surprised
voice, he asked: "You know about the candles?" I responded that I did.
I then asked if he used them. He told me that his company's top man­
agement would meet each Monday to discuss the world markets. At these
meetings, he would bring his candle charts to offer his technical views.
Then he pointed to my candle charts and asked: "How many other
Americans know about this?" I said no one (this was before the publi­
cation of my first book). He looked relieved. I then continued, "But I
will soon have a book out about it." "50, many others will know about
this?," he asked in a disappointed tone. The point of the story is that
the Japanese trader came to me to learn about how we, in the West, use
technicals. The Japanese have learned from us and they know almost all
of our technical methods. In most of the candlestick books and articles I
have had translated from Japanese to English, there was at least some
reference to western technical techniques. A quote from one of the books
I had translated stated, "To understand stocks it is not enough to know
the Japanese chart methods ... one must absorb the best parts of western
technicals: and on top of that using the best parts of Japanese charts to
make for a progressive outlook which is necessary for stock analysis."?
We can see from this statement how the Japanese have used our methods
to enhance their own. One of the purposes of this book is to do the same
Introduction 5
for Western traders-to show how to use the techniques implemented
by the Japanese to enhance our market knowledge.
An article about my work appeared in the Japan EconomicJournal. In
it, the reporter states: "Japan, which has been in the position to learn
many things from the West in the investments area, may be in the po­
sition to teach something. ,,4 We now have access to a wealth of technical
information refined by generations to use; we are learning from the Jap­
anese.
Chapter 2 shows how to draw the basic candle line, and delves into
some history of the candle charts. Later in that chapter, I show how a
single candle line can provide important market insights. Chapter 3 dis­
cusses the basic candle patterns. With the detailed descriptions of these
patterns, those new to candles and candle experts can discover new mar­
ket perspectives. The last chapter in this section, Chapter 4 focuses on
how the overall technical picture is more important than a single candle
pattern.
Notes
lHoshii, Kazutaka, p. 18.
2Euroweek,August 30, 1991.
3Yasui, Taichi, p. 95.
4The Japan EconomicJournal, July 23, 1991.
CHAPTER 1
OVERVIEW..............................................................................
"The Buddha is Complete, But the Eyes Are Not in Yet"
(The Job is Not Yet Done)
THE EXPLOSIVE INTEREST IN THE CANDLES
There is a Japanese saying, II A clever hawk hides its claws." For over
a century, the claws of Japanese technical analysis, that is candlestick
charts, were a secret hidden from the western world.
For those new to the exciting field of candlestick charts, candlestickis
the term used for Japan's most popular and oldest form of technical
analysis. They are older than Western point and figure and bar charts.
Amazingly, candlestick charting techniques, used for generations in the
Far East, were virtually unknown to the West until I revealed them in
my first book, Japanese CandlestickCharting Techniques.
I am pleased and proud that my first book has been credited with
revolutionizing technical analysis by igniting the flames of interest in the
candles. Before its publication, few people in the West had ever heard
of a candle chart. Now, candle charting techniques are among the most
discussed form of technical analysis in the world!
Interest in candle charts has become so intense that the World Bank
in Washington, DC asked me to address them on the subject. The world­
wide interest in these previously secret techniques are reflected in the
financial headlines below:
Institutional Investor-"Revealed! Ancient Japanese Trading System"
Wall Street Journal-"Japan's Candlesticks Light Traders' Path"
Euroweek-"Candlestick Charting Comes of Age"
7
8 Candles
Equity International-"Candlestick Charting-A New Language for the West"
Reuters-"Candlesticks Light New Path for Western Chartists II
For over 70 years, the standard charting tools in the West have been
bar charts and point and figure charts. Yet, within a short time, candle
charts have now joined these as a basic charting tool. The rapidity with
which this has happened is a direct reflection of the candle's popularity
and value.
The groundswell of interest in the candlestick charting has become a
topic in the media. A TV show, Tech Talk, on the business news cable
station CNBC is hosted by the famous technician, John Murphy. John
told me that a viewer once called and asked him, "What are those charts
that look like hot dogs?" What an interesting and amusing idea, I thought,
to Americanize these charts by referring to them as hot dog charts. But
I guess the term "candle chart," thankfully, is here to stay.
I have had many wonderful compliments from famous traders and
analysts. However, the most endearing compliment came from a woman
who wrote, "If you ever have a down day, just remember there's a nice
little grandmother in Missouri who's in awe of your accomplishments."
This letter, besides being so gracious, illustrates the universal appeal of
candles-from traders at the World Bank to a grandmother in Missouri.
The reason for the popularity of candlestick analysis is easy to un­
derstand. They can be melded with any other form of technical analysis,
they are applicable to any of the markets to which technical analysis is
applied, and they provide market insights not available anywhere else.
Why this book? A renowned 16th-century samurai swordsman stated
that "learning is the gate, not the house. You first have to go through
the gate to get to the house."
My other book, Japanese Candlestick Charting Techniques, took you
to the gate. This book takes you to the house and has many new, excit­
ing, and effective techniques to improve your trading, investing, or
hedging.
Japanese charting was considered a secret. However, I have managed
to pry open the "secrets of the Orient" by exchanging ideas with many
Japanese traders who use candles and by having many hundreds of pages
translated from Japanese into English. Lin Yutang, a noted Chinese phi­
losopher, sagely noted that one gets a different flavor from reading the
same book at different stages in life. Therefore, he says, all great books
can be read with profit and pleasure a second time; I have found this to
be true.
In the time since the publication of my first book, I have reread my
original candlestick documents and have gleaned new insights. In ad­
dition, I have obtained and translated new Japanese material, have ex-
panded my dialogue with more Japanese technicians and, of course, have
continued to learn from my use of candles. I reveal these new and val­
uable insights in this book.
My first book focused on the futures markets. The candles have now
become so important that their popularity has spilled over from futures
into stock, bond, and foreign exchange markets from around the world.
As a result, this book will have many more of the charts than did my
other book.
At times, a single candle line can be important. The Japanese have a
saying, ,'With the fall of one leaf we know that autumn has come to the
world." In this sense, a single candle line may be the first sign of a market
turn. In this book, I will show how to use individual candle lines to obtain
clues about the market's health.
It has been very exciting to see the intense interest sparked by the
candles. However, it is often forgotten that the emergence of a candle
pattern is but one aspect of trading. Other aspects, such as the risk and
reward ratio of a potential trade and monitoring where the candle pattern
appears in the overall technical picture, must also be considered. This is
so important that I have devoted a chapter to these aspects.
In my continuing studies of Japanese trading techniques, I have un­
covered three charting methods that are very popular in Japan, yet are
unknown to the West. These charting techniques are called three-line
break charts, kagi charts, and renko charts. They are revealed in Part 2
of this book.
In the days of fur trading in the United States, there was a company
called the Hudson Bay Trading Company. They were known for taking
risks and for careful preparation. Trading journeys were undertaken with
much excitement, but in case the fur traders forgot anything, they would
camp out the first night just a few miles away from the company's head­
quarters. In other words, careful preparation spared the travelers poten­
tial difficulties.
In Chapters 2 and 3, I too provide careful preparation by providing a
primer on basic candle theory and patterns. For those new to candle
charts, these chapters will provide the groundwork for your candle chart
analysis.
Many of you are probably already familiar with the basics of candle
charts. With this in mind, Chapters 2 and 3 will also offer a deeper
knowledge of the candles by revealing new candle theories, techniques,
and tools. As a result, even those knowledgeable about candles will gain
new insights and perspectives into the power of the candle charts. For
example, when I describe the candle patterns in Chapter 3, I will provide
a unique visual glossary of candle patterns. This method of drawing the
patterns will provide a dimension of candle pattern analysis that was
Overview 9
10 Candles
never before available. After you explore with me the beauty and power
of the candle charts, you will never be able to go back to a bar chart.
This book will be a self-contained unit. I will not go over all the candle
patterns; that is done in my first book. However, I will sometimes make
references to the more obscure or rare patterns discussed in my first book.
This is for the benefit of those who are familiar with all the candle pat­
terns. Do not worry if you have not heard of the pattern before; it will
not detract from the discussion of the chart.
Numerous charts and exhibits will quickly and clearly make evident
how candles can enhance your trading, timing, and investing. As shown
throughout the book, candles can be merged with any other form of
technical analysis. Consequently, I have included charts that show how
to fully utilize the candles' power alone, or when joined with other tech­
nical tools.
Just as important as the recognition of candle patterns is an under­
standing of the relationship of the candle patterns to the overall technical
picture. Chapter 4 focuses on this vital, but often neglected, aspect. In
this chapter, I will address how trading with the candles must take into
account the risk and reward of a potential trade, the stop-out level, and
the overall trend. I will also address the value of adapting to changing
market conditions.
Before I discuss trading with candles, I want to clarify a few points.
In the futures market, selling short is as common as buying long. This is
not true in the stock market; most equity traders look to buy. Conse­
quently, throughout this book when I use the term "bearish" or "sell­
ing" when discussing a stock, you should not think of necessarily going
short. Instead, view it as an area to protect existing longs by such means
as selling covered calls, moving up protective stops, or offsetting all or
some longs.
But this book is about more than candles. In Part II I reveal the dis­
parity index, the three-line break, renko charts, and kagi. These tech­
niques, popular in Japan, are virtually unknown in the West and, unlike
candle charting, little has been written about these techniques, even in
Japan.
The disparity index compares the close to a moving average. It is used
in the same manner as dual moving averages, but it has an interesting
wrinkle to it. The three-line break, kagi charts, and renko charts are
popular among Japanese traders. They are excellent technical tools for
determining the trend of the market.
Whether you use the techniques discussed in this book individually
or in combination with one another, you will discover that they provide
dynamic advantages for those who make use of their tremendous poten­
tial.
a
Note to Reader: Many charts in this book, especially in Part II, were
drawn using technical analysis software from Metastock by EQUIS In­
ternational (Salt Lake City, UT). A coupon for Metastock Software is
included at the end of the book.
Overview 11
CHAPTER 2
THE BASICS
"Inattention is Fatal"
HISTORY OF THE CANDLE CHARTS
THE Japanese were the first to use technical analysis to trade one of the
world's first futures markets-rice futures. The Japanese started trading
in this market in the 1600s. Interestingly, the birth of the Japanese rice
futures market was a consequence of the country's military history.
After a century of internal warfare among the daimyo (Japanese feu­
dallords), General Tokugawa Ieyasu, who ruled from Edo (the ancient
name of Tokyo), won the famous battle at Sekigahara in 1600. This was
the battle that helped unify Japan. Tokugawa thereafter became Shogun
of all Japan. After his victory over the daimyo, General Tokugawa clev­
erly required that all the feudal lords live in Edo with their families. When
the lords returned to their respective provinces, the entire family stayed
at Edo as hostage. The feudal lord' s main source of income was rice that
was collected as tax from the peasants who worked their land. Since this
rice could not be transported from the daimyo's provinces all the way to
Edo, they set up warehouses in the port city of Osaka to store their rice.
Because all these powerful daimyo lived so close to each other in Edo,
they attempted to outdo one another in lavish dress, mansions, and other
luxuries. This was reflected by a popular saying at the time, "The Edoite
will not keep his earnings overnight." This showed that the daimyo in
Edo were seen as spendthrifts with an expensive lifestyle. To maintain
this lifestyle, the daimyo sold rice from their warehouse in Osaka; some­
times they even sold rice from future harvests. The warehouse would
13
14 Candles
issue receipts for this future rice. These were called empty rice contracts
("empty rice" since the rice was not in anyone's physical possession)
and they were sold in the secondary market. This was the beginning of
one of the world's first futures market.
Trading in rice futures engendered much speculation, and it was from
this speculation that Japanese technical analysis was born. The most fa­
mous trader in the rice futures market was Homma. Homma traded in
the rice futures markets in the 1700s. He discovered that although there
was a link between the supply and demand of rice, the markets were
also strongly influenced by the emotions of the traders. Because of this,
there were times when the market perceived a harvest as different from
the actual. He reasoned that studying the emotions of the market could
help in predicting prices. In other words, he understood that there was
a difference between the value and the price of rice. This difference be­
tween price and value is as valid today with stocks, bonds, and curren­
cies, as it was with rice centuries ago.
In the material I had translated, candle charts are often called Sakata
charts in reference to the port city of Sakata, where Homma lived. How­
ever, based on my research, it is unlikely that Homma used candle charts.
As will be seen later, when I discuss the evolution of the candle charts,
it was more likely that candle charts were developed in the early part of
the Meiji period in Japan (in the late 1800s).
Whether or not Homma invented charting is open to question. But
determining whether one person, in this case Homma, created charts or
used them to trade is not too important. There is a tendency in the West
to be preoccupied with imposing authorship to one person. It is more
likely that the candle charts we know today and all the techniques as­
sociated with them tended to be a process of cumulative authorship by
several people over many generations. Even if he did not invent candle
charts, Homma understood that the psychological aspect of the market
was critical to his trading success. And it appears that the earliest forms
of technical analysis in Japan dealt more with the psychology of the
market rather than charts.
In the book, The Fountain of Gold- The Three Monkey Record of Money,
purportedly written by Homma, the author states: "After 60 years of
working day and night I have gradually acquired a deep understanding
of the movements of the rice market." The book then goes on to say:
,'When all are bearish, there is cause for prices to rise. When everyone
is bullish there is cause for the price to fall." This phrase echos what is
now called contrarian opinion, a tool important to so many traders. Yet,
The Fountain of Gold- The Three Monkey Record of Money, was written in
1755. It is amazing that before America was a nation, the Japanese were
trading with contrarian opinion! The title had me perplexed for some
The Basics 15
time. I did not understand the reference to the "three monkeys" in the
title. Then in some of my translated material, it said something about
comparing successful trading to being like the three monkeys we all knew
as children-see, hear, and speak no evil. Then it dawned on me; the
title of the book, The Fountainof Gold- The Three Monkey Record of Money,
means that for traders to get to their "fountains of gold," they should
have the characteristics of these three monkeys. Specifically:
1. "See no evil" -when you see a bullish (bearish) trend, do not get
caught up in it; consider it an opportunity to sell (buy).
In the Fountain of Gold, it states that there is always a rotation of Yang
(bullishness) and Yin (bearishness). This means that within each bull
market, there is a bear market, and within a bear market, there is a bull
market. This view may explain why Japanese candlestick techniques place
so much emphasis on reversal, rather than continuation, patterns.
2. "Hear no evil" -when you hear bullish or bearish news, don't trade
on it.
It may be safer to take a position after you determine how the market
reacts to a news item rather than initiating a trade when the news is
released. Bernard Baruch, the millionaire stock speculator and presiden­
tial advisor, stated that what is important in market fluctuations" are not
the events themselves, but the human reactions to these events." Exhibit
2.1 shows that how the market reacts to the news may be just as impor­
tant as the news itself.
The Iraqi War started in the first few days of August 1990. Yet, Exhibit
2.1 shows that gold stalled at $425. This $425 level was gold's high earlier
in 1990. This failure to take out the prior high was in spite of the fact
that there was a Mideast War. Gold's failure to rally on supposedly
bullish news sent out volumes of information about the state of the mar­
ket. To wit, be careful of a market that fails to rally on bullish news. Note
that after this failure at $425, gold lost its luster as prices returned to their
pre-Mideast crisis price near $360 within two months.
Also be aware of what the Japanese refer to as "whispering tactics."
This is what they call the spreading of false news to trick others in the
market. Try to keep out of rumor buffeted markets. Isaac Newton once
said, "I can calculate the motion of heavenly bodies but not the madness
of people." Why get involved with the madness of people?
3. "Speak no evil" -don't speak to others about what you are going to
do in the market.
16 Candles
9:17 GCZO DAILY BAR © 1990 CQG INC.
0= 3695··.. . .
H:r 3710' . . . ~Mid East .L= 3687' . . . w .
l:~'...................................................................................11 tli.. ~E'"p1s .
: : : : ~ tl : ~ (.: ~ . ~ .~ .. ~... t~~( ...
····1,1~1 .. ·•...... ......•. ...•. .........).. ..j.·,1,1..·· i~lll· .
: ~i J~~, t~d: : : ~.: :n ~~ . . ~~ y • y L .: : :.tP. . t~, &~. n~. . .
. . ~ ~~. V!~· . .
·10/22/90·· : : Vh~t'~ ..: : : : .
0=3695' . ~. . . .
H= 3710
L= 3687
C= 3705 ·May ·Jun ·Jul ·Aug ·Sel" ·Oct
• 116~3~017 114~1 128141111181251219116123\30161131202713 \10\17\24\1 \8 \15122
EXHIBIT 2.1. Observing the Market's Reaction to Fundamental News, Gold­
December 1990, Daily
4200
4000
3800
3600
Has the following happened to you? Based on your analysis, you decide
to buy into a market. You tell someone else of this decision, but they say
something negative about that market. Because there is always a degree
of uncertainty, you get nervous and decide not to buy. Then, of course,
the market rallies.
If you have carefully studied the market, it is safer not to speak to
anyone about what you plan on doing unless you believe they have better
insight than you. Look only to the market to give you direction. In one
of my favorite passages in The Fountainof Gold, it says that /I • • • to learn
about the market ask the market-only then can you become a detestable
market demon." Isn't that a wonderful phrase? Wouldn't you love to
become a detestablemarket demon? The colorful language used by the Jap­
anese is just one reason their technical techniques are so exciting.
Let us turn our attention to Exhibit 2.2, which illustrates the path that
ultimately led to the candle charts.
Evolution of the Candle Charts
A. Stopping chart-Also referred to as a point, line, or star chart. This
was the earliest type of chart and was drawn by joining only closing
The Basics 17
(A)
Stopping Charts (close)
(B)
Pole Charts (High-Low)
H
L
(0)
Anchor Chart (High-Low-Close-Open)
H
~± 19t +f
o L L 1:
(C)
Bar Chart (High-Low-Close)
(E)
Candle Chart (High-Low-Close-Open)
H
eX 6:, ?i
o~ L 0 EXHIBIT 2.2. The Evolutionary
Path to the Candlestick Charts
prices. They were named stopping charts because that was where the
prices stopped by the end of the session. Stopping charts were drawn
with either diagonal lines or horizontal lines connecting the closes.
B. Pole chart-Its name is derived from the fact that the lines resemble
poles. This chart added the extra information imparted by showing the
range between the high and the low of the session. These lines show not
only the direction of the move, but the extent of the move for each
session.
C. Bar chart-This is a combination of the stopping and pole charts.
D. Anchor chart-Named as such because it looks like an anchor.
Based on legend, these charts originated in the Kyoho Era (from 1716)
from the fact that the usual meeting place for rice traders was port cities.
The anchor chart was an important event in the evolution of charting.
With this chart, the opening price was now added and created a chart
with an open, high, low, and close. Just as important, and something
unique to Japanese charts, was that the relationship between the open
and close was pictorially displayed. The top and bottom of the anchor's
vertical line are the high and low of that session. The horizontal line of
the anchor line is the open. The arrow of the anchor line is the close. If
the close is higher than the open, the arrow points up; if the close is
lower, the arrow points down.
18 Candles
E. Candle chart-The next improvement from the anchor charts was
the candle chart. Although they are shrouded in mystery, the candles
probably started in the early part of the Meiji period (from 1868). As can
be seen in Exhibit 2.2E, candle lines were a refinement of the anchor
chart. The use of black and white real bodies made analyzing the un­
derlying supply and demand situation visually easier to determine than
with the anchor charts.
With the arrival of the candle charts, Japanese technical analysis flow­
ered as people started thinking in terms of signals and trading strategies.
Patterns were developed and market prediction became more important.
Trying to forecast the market took on extra importance in the 1870s when
the Japanese stock market opened.
As can be seen from Exhibit 2.2, bar charts were one of the ancestors
of the more evolved and productive candle charts. In essence, this means
that since most of the West is still using bar charts, it is also using a less
evolved form of charting than the Japanese are with candle charts.
CONSTRUCTION OF THE CANDLE LINE
The first step in using the power of candles is learning how to construct
the basic candle line. Exhibits 2.3. and 2.4 show that the candle line
consists of a rectangular section and two thin lines above or below this
section. We see why these are named candlestick charts; the individual
lines often look like candles with their wicks. The rectangular part of the
candlestick line is called the real body. It represents the range between
the session's open and close. When the real body is black (e.g., filled in),
it shows that the close of the session was lower than the open. If the real
body is white (that is, empty), it means the close was higher than the
open.
~~~:'W-t,-/Hi9h
Close
OpenLower _
Shadow ~
Low
White Real Body
EXHIBIT 2.3. White Real Body
i
,-/Hi9h
~h~~~w -,___Open
.......---CloseLower _
Shadow ~
Low
Black Real Body
EXHIBIT 2.4. Black Real Body
The Basics 19
The thin lines above and below the real body are the shadows. The
shadows represent the session's price extremes. The shadow above the
real body is referred to as the upper shadow and the shadow under the
real body is the lower shadow. Accordingly, the peak of the upper shadow
is the high of the session and the bottom of the lower shadow is the low
of the session.
Candle charts can be used throughout the trading spectrum, from
daily, to weekly, and intra-day charting. For a daily chart, one would use
the open, high, low, and close of the session. For a weekly chart, the
candle would be composed of Monday's open, then the high and low of
the week, and Friday's close. On an intra-day basis, it would be the open,
high, low, and close for the chosen time period (i.e., hourly).
Exhibit 2.3 shows a strong session in which the market opened near
the low and closed near its high. We know that the close is higher than
the open because of the white real body. Exhibit 2.4 illustrates a long
black candlestick. This is a bearish session in which the market opened
near its high and closed near its low.
The Japanese focus on the relationship between the open and close.
This makes sense; probably the two most important prices of the day are
the open and close. It is therefore surprising that American newspapers
have openings for futures prices, but not for stocks. A member of the
Nippon Technical Analysts Association told me that he found it unusual
that U.S. newspapers do not have opening stock prices; the Japanese
have the openings in their papers. He said that he did not know why
the Americans disregard the openings.
I would expect that just as almost all technical software vendors now
carry candle charts, so it may be that as candles become more popular
in the equity market, newspapers may, by popular request, carry stock
openings. Until then, in order to obtain the data needed to draw the
candles (the open, high, low, and close) you need to use a data vendor
service. These services furnish prices on disks or through modems. The
data supplied from a data vendor are then transferred into a technical
analysis software package that will draw the candles based on these
data.
A note of caution: Some data vendors who do not have the actual
opening price of a stock default to the prior session's close as today's
open. This, in my opinion, is not valid. You must have the true open to
draw an accurate candle line. Although an open on a stock will usually
not be much different from the prior close, there are some candle patterns
in which a higher or lower opening (compared to the prior close) gives
valuable information. A data vendor that includes actual opens on stocks
is Dial Data (Brooklyn, NY).
20 Candles
REAL BODY AND SHADOWS
While an individual candle usually should not be used alone to place a
trade, the size and color of its real body and the length of its shadows
can provide a wealth of information. Specifically, looking at a line's real
body and shadows gives a sense of the supply and demand situation.
This section will discuss this basic idea, and explain how to use real
bodies and shadows to get clues about the market's underlying strength
or weakness. By using the candle lines discussed below, you may be able
to get an early and tentative indication of market direction.
THE REAL BODY
In Japanese charts, even an individual candle line has meaning, and one
of the first clues about the vitality of the market is to look at the size and
color of the real body. To the Japanese, the real body is the essence of
the price movement. This is a critical and powerful aspect of candle charts;
through the height and color of the real body, candle charts clearly and
quickly display the relative posture of the bulls and the bears.
This section will be segmented according to the decreasing size of the
real bodies. The first part of this section will consequently focus on long
white and then long black real bodies. After these, attention is turned to
candles with small real bodies called spinning tops. These diminutive
real bodies display a market where the bulls and bears are in a tug of
war.
This section will conclude with candles that have no real bodies. These
candles have the same (or nearly the same) opening and closing. Such
candles, called doji (pronounced do-gee), reflect a market in a state of
transition. Doji, as you will see later, can be an important market signal.
Long White Real Bodies
A long white real body is defined as a session that opens at or near the
low of session, and then closes at or near the session's high. The close
should be much higher than the open. For example, if a stock opens at
$40 and closes at $40%, it would not be a long white candle since the
opening and closing range were relatively close. For a long white candle
to have meaning, some Japanese candlestick traders believe that the real
body should be at least three times as long as the previous day's real
body.
The Basics 21
EXHIBIT 2.5. Long White at a Low Price Level
Long White at a Low Price Level
A single candle by itself is rarely sufficient reason to forecast an imme­
diate reversal. It could, however, be one clue that the prior trend may
be changing. For instance, as shown in Exhibit 2.5, a long white real
body at a low price range may be the first sign of a market bottom. A
long white candle shows that the ability to rise is virtually unimpeded
by the bears. The closer the close is to the high of the session, and the
longer the white real body, the more important the candle line.
Exhibit 2.6 shows that in late 1991, this stock was stabilizing near $5.
The first sign that the bulls were attempting to take control was the
unusually long white real body at 1. Note how this real body was ex­
tended compared to the prior real bodies. However, an almost equally
long, but black real body (for information on black real bodies, see page
29), on the week after candle 1 showed that the bears still had enough
force to offset the bulls' advance. In early 1992, another unusually long
white candle, shown at 2, appeared. This white candle opened on its low
(since it does not have a lower shadow) and closed on its high (since it
does not have an upper shadow). Such a candle is exceptionally strong,
notably when it is so elongated as in candle 2. Candle 3 was another
strong white candle that propelled prices to new multi-month highs. With
the tall white candles 1 and 2 both appearing near $5, we can see the
significance of that $5 support area. Consequently, when prices corrected
back to this level in July and August 1992, it is not surprising that the
selloff stopped near $5.
Long White Candle Confirms Support
As shown in Exhibit 2.7, the tall white candle that rebounds from support
underscores the aggressiveness of the bulls. A long white candle that
bounces off a support area such as a trendline, a moving average, or a­
retracement level gives extra confirmation of that support.
22 Candles
r AURORA ELECTRIC - WEEKLY
16.0
15.5
15.0
14.5
14.0
13.5
13.0
12.5
12.0
11.5
11.0
10.5
10.0
9.5
9.0
8.5
8.0
7.5
7.0
6.5
6.0
5.5
5.0
4.5
16.0
15.5
15. rr
14.5
14.0
13.5
13.0
12.5
12.0
11.5
11.0
10.5
10.0
9.5
9.0
8.5
8.0
7.5
7.0
6.5
6.0
5.5
5.0
4.5
L . 191 NOU DEC 192 FEB MAR APR MAY JUN JUL AUG SEP OCT NOU DEC 193 FEB MAR ..J
MetaStock by EQUIS Int'l
EXHIBIT 2.6. Long White Candle at Low Price, Aurora Electric-Weekly
I
I
f
Prior lows
as support
EXHIBIT 2.7. Long White Candle Confirms Support
I I
I I I I I
IIIIII~
t
Moving average
as support
The Basics 23
c GENL RE - DAILY
130
129
128
127
126
125
124
123
122
121
120
119
118
117
116
115
114
113
112
111
110
109
108
107
F" 08o 07 14 21 28 193 11 18 25192 09 16 23
130
129
128
127
126
125
124
123
122
121
120
119
118
117
116
115
114
113
112
111
110
109
108
107
L ,.....J
Exhibit 2.9 displays how the market can prove its mettle by piercing a
resistance area with a tall white real body. As shown in Exhibit 2.10, the
highs at areas A and B disclosed a resistance area near $44 and $45. In
late November, an extended white real body gapped higher on the open-
Long White Body Breaks Resistance
MetaStock by EQUIS Int'l
EXHIBIT 2.8. Long White Candle Confirms Support, General Re-Daily
In Exhibit 2.8, we see how drawing a support line with a candle chart
is done the same way as with a bar chart. In this case, we are looking at
a support line that is obtained by connecting the lows of the session (that
is, by connecting the bottom of the lower shadows). This upward sloping
trendline was tested numerous times. In late January, a bounce from this
support via a long white real body showed the eagerness of the bulls to
buy near that support.
24 Candles
I
I
EXHIBIT 2.9. Long White Candle Breaks Resistance
I I
III I
I I'
ing and closed at the session's high. This tall white candle confirmed an
important breakout from the aforementioned resistance band. Note how
in early 1993 the gap before this white candle became a support area. We
will look at the importance of gaps as support when windows are dis­
cussed in the next chapter.
I BANK AMERICA - DAILY
56.5
56.0
55.5
55.0
54.5
54.0
53.5
53.0
52.5
52.0
51.5
51.0
50.5
50.0
49.5
49.0
48.5
48.0
47.5
47.0
46.5
46.0
45.5
45.0
44.5
44.0
43.5
43.0
42.5
42.0
41.5
41.0
40.5
192 12 19 26 N 09 16 23 0 07 14 21 28 193 11 18 25
The Basics 25
Long White Real Bodies as Support
Exhibit 2.11 brings out one of the more exciting uses of long white can­
dles, specifically, that long white candles can become support areas. I
have found this to be an excellent tool since it serves to alert traders to
support zones that are not available with bar charts. The depth of the
reaction should find support at either the middle of the long white real
body or the bottom of the entire white candle, including the lower
shadow. The Japanese literature says that a long white real body should
be support in a rising market. However, based on my experience, it can
also be used as support in a falling market. The reason the market may
fall back after an exceptionally tall white real body is that prices may
become short-term overbought (that is, they rallied too far too fast). In
this scenario, the market may have to retrace some of the prior rally to
relieve this overbought condition.
In Exhibit 2.12, the huge white candle in early 1992 propelled prices
from $10lJ2 to about $15. Almost a 50% rise in one week! After such a
move, it was not surprising that the market had to consolidate its gains.
Based on the precept that a long white candle is support, the middle of
the white real body (at the arrow), near $12lJ2, should then be monitored
as support. The power of the market is well reflected by the fact that for
the rest of 1992, the market held above this support area.
(1) 50% within
long white
real body
I
I
Support
(2) Bottom of long
white candle's
lower shadow
I I
I
I J_J _
Support
EXHIBIT 2.11. Long White Real Bodies as
Support
26 Candles
CITICORP - WEEKLY
28
27
26
25
24
23
22
21
20
19
18
~~ !11,~lijll,
~; itO+iI~"'l;llj
12
11 I~+'+.. r.
10 t
9
8
7
28
27
26
25
24
23
22
21
20
19
18
17
16
15
14
13
12
11
10
9
8
7
I 91 J J PI SON 0 I 92 r M PI M J J PI SON 0 }93L ,..,J
EXHIBIT2.12. The Middle of a Long White Candle as Support, Citicorp-Weekly
Exhibit 2.13 illustrates how the lower end of tall white bodies 1-4
became support on corrections. Of interest is that the support line ob­
tained by extending the low of candle 3 was broken in September 1992.
Observe, however, that the sell-off stopped near the support area from
the low of candle 2. This chart also illustrates an important point. Candle­
stick traders should wait, if possible, for the market to close under sup­
port to confirm a break. In this example, we see in mid-1992 that the
support level from the bottom of candle 3 was broken intra-weekly (see
X on the chart), as was the support by the bottom of candle 4 (see Y).
Because the weekly (i.e., the Friday) close held above these support areas,
the support line was still in force.
Notice in Exhibit 2.14 how the low of the long white real body in early
April (at the arrow) was 109-22. This means that area should provide a
base on sell-offs. In this exhibit we see the importeace of waiting for a
close under a support area to confirm the breaking of support.
The Basics 27
p: to UFFK_Y BAR m 1~~3 :QS IN[
0- 34925
H- 35047
L- 3485P
L" 3493P
A- +11
.................... :................................................... :.... (3)'····· .. ··· .... ········ .. ·.. ····· .. ···~~!·~·· .. ··..·······t·.... 35000
· : . . . : ~ ,6~6tt, .•11 . : ~otl0·'6~lt~1· . . . . . . t ~ t 1. pA .· (2)~1'!U~1 ~I!!""::-W~~ II rt 1,,1: : : : : ~ t . x ,~.A t : y .
mm:...;;;.=;jii!lji~ii;l'1!iilljll~I"II~I'Ij;il... m·· m:m... m.m.... :. m. soooo
· . i· . . . . . . . .· t . .· . . . . . . . . . .
· ~.t+f" . . . : . . . : .....·'~t~I't~tt .....,..................................................:...................................................:........................25000
· . . . . . . . . . .· . .
5i24/93
0- 34925
H= 35041
L= 34859 ....... :................................................... :................................................... :........................ 20000C.. 3493P .Jan Apr Jul Oct .Jan Apr Jul Oct .Jan Apr
• 11P91 11992 11993
EXHIBIT 2.13. Bottom of Tall White as Support, Dow Jones-Weekly
14: 32 BOM3 OAILY BAR () 1993 CGG IHC.
0= 11105
H= 11115
L= 11026.. ··········· .. ··············· .. ······ .. ·.. ·.. ···················· .. ·········· .. ··················· .. ·· ..·························· ...... 11400L= 11105 ...
A= +4
..I .. ... .I . . . . .
...~ l·llt~JltlJ,~~t~'l.. 11200
11000
~ . . n .
......tV : :..~ : 10800
5/21/93
0= 11105
H= 11115
L= 11026
C= 11105 Mar Apr May
• 122 11 18 115 122 129 15 112 119 126 13 110 111 124
EXHIBIT 2.14. Bottom of Tall White Candle as Support with Bond Futures-~y
s..-------------_."'~-'""~'"""''''..''''.'''''''."
28 Candles
A method you could use with this concept of tall white candles as
support is to buy on a correction near the midpoint of the white candle.
From that level down to the bottom of the long white candle (this includes
the bottom of the lower shadow) should be support. If the bottom end
of the support zone (that is, the lows of the tall white candle) is pene­
trated on a close, then you should reconsider your long position. At
times, these support areas are broken on an intra-session basis, but as
long as the support holds on the close, I still view it as valid support.
One of our institutional clients told me he found that, at times, after
a tall white candle, the market corrects. I advised him that such action is
not surprising since after such a candle, the market may be overbought
and hence vulnerable to a setback. I then suggested the use of a long
while candle as a support area in which he could buy on a correction.
Coincidentally, on November 23, at the time the trader and I were talking
about this, the bond's first hour of trading had just ended. This first
hour, as shown in area 2 in Exhibit 2.15, completed a tall white candle.
Since he traded bonds, I informed the client that support should be from
the halfway point of this white candle down to the bottom of the candle,
including the lower shadow. I then pointed out that there was another
long while candle from the preceding day's first hour of trading (see
• 111/15 -111/22
EXHIBIT2.15. Using the Support Zone in a Tall White Candle December 1993 Bond
Futures-Intra-Day
The Basics 29
candle 1). The bottom of that tall white candle (including the shadow)
was successfully defended as support with candle 2. Thus, there were
two white candles (at 1 and 2) that reinforced the support near 114-16.
Note how, after white real body 2, the market retraced about halfway
into it before rallying.
Long Black Real Body at High Price Area
Just as a long white candle could be an early signal that the market may
be trying to build a bottom, so it is that a distinctively long black real
body at a high price may be a tentative warning of a top. The long black
real body should be significantly longer than the candles preceding it.
This is illustrated in Exhibit 2.16. Such a long black real body displays
that the bears had grabbed control of the market. The longer the rally
continued and the more overbought the market, the more reliable the
cautionary signal of this long black real body becomes.
The long white candle (1) in Exhibit 2.17 echoes a vibrant market.
However, there were a few warnings that Home Depot was overheating.
The first was that the relative strength index (RSI) was above 70%. Such
a high RSI figure is a clue that the market is overbought. Another sign
that the bulls were losing their upside push Was the series of small real
bodies following the tall white candle at 1. These small real bodies showed
that the supply-demand situation was more in balance as compared to
tall white candle 1 (candle 1 showed that demand was overwhelming
supply). Small real bodies are discussed in more detail later in this chap­
ter.
Falling black real body at 2 showed that the bears had wrested control
of this stock. Note how black real body 2 was the longest black real body
since at least November 1992. This shouts out a warning that there is
now something very different about the market, and that appropriate
defensive action-such as selling covered calls, or offsetting some longs­
should be undertaken. For those who are familiar with all the candle
patterns, note how the tall white candle at 1 and the black real body at
2
I I
I
I
I EXHIBIT 2.16. Long Black Real Body at High Price Area
30 Candles
HOME DEPOT & 14 PEAl 00 ASI
: l
75
50
Long Black Confirms Resistance
51
50
49
48
47
46
45
44
43
42
41
40
I
I
I
Moving average as
resistance
I I
I I
I
Prior highs as
resistance
III~I
I I I I' I
I I I
I I
2 formed a bearish tower top, so named because the two long candles at
1 and 2 look like towers.
If, as shown in Exhibit 2.18, the market backs off sharply from resistance
through a long black candle, it is extra confirmation of the resistance
area. This is because such a candle means that either the bulls have
192 23 0 07 14 21 28 193 11 18 25 r 08 16 22 M 08 15 22 29 Fl 12
EXHIBIT2.18. Long
Black Candle Confirms
Resistance
L ..J
EXHIBIT2.17. Large Black Candle at High Price and the Relative Strength Index,
Home Depot-Daily
................................................................................... 14000
Resistance
~Long Bla~k candle: . .
..1. ..1
1 1
:................. 13000
I' lU, Ihl :
II' III lllil,'IIIIi'V~!lll
................····················I~li·······:··I·········· 12000
: 11111111
.........................tltlllll~ r'" 11000
Jan Apr Ju 1 Oct ·Jan Apr Ju 1
1992 11993
FJTX WEEKLY BAA () 1993 COG lt~C •
The Basics 31
EXHIBIT 2.19. Long Black Candle at Resistance, Cash Yen-Weekly
retreated or that the bears have become aggressive enough to overwhelm
the bulls. Either of these scenarios is potentially bearish. In Exhibit 2.19,
there is an evident resistance area near 135 yen. This is shown by the
horizontal trendline. The first long black candle at the arrow stalled at
this resistance. With the retreat from this resistance through this un­
usually long black real body, there was a cause for caution. Two weeks
later, the second, even longer black real body signified the capacity of
the bears to drag prices lower.
Long Black Breaks Support
As shown in Exhibit 2.20, the way the market breaks a support area may
indicate the seriousness of the break. For instance, a move under a sup­
port area by way of a long black candle should be viewed as a potentially
more bearish scenario than if the market closes under a support area with
a short black candle or a white candle.
A popular longer term moving average monitored by both Japanese
and American stock market participants is the 200 day moving average.
Exhibit 2.21 shows how this moving average was support throughout
..,
32 Candles
I
I
I
II I
I 1
1
1---_
EXHIBIT 2.20. Long Black Candle Breaks Support
late 1992 into January 1993. However, the first sign of a break of this
support came by way of long black real body 1. Although this only broke
the 200 day moving average line by a few cents, it was an early, but
provisional, sign of trouble. Final proof of a decisive break of the support
area came with long black candlestick 2.
AMGEN - DAILY
35
40
55
65
45
50
75
60
70
MARFEBDECNOU"'-- ,...1
EXHIBIT 2.21. Long Black Real Body Breaks Moving Average Support, Amgen­
Daily
The Basics 33
49
48
47
46
45
44
43
42
41
40
39
38
37
36
35
34
33
32
31
30
(x)
UPJOHN - WEEKLY
JUN JUL f\UG SEP OCT NOU DEC 1 92 FEB Mf\R f\PR Mf\Y JUN JUL f\UG SEP OCT
49
48
47
46
45
44
43
42
41
40
39
38
37
36
35
34
33
32
31
30'--.......-_.__.......---.--_--.--.__--.--..__--.--.__.......---.--_--.-- __- ........
1 91L, ...
c
Long Black as Resistance
,
--------r--------
I I
I I II
I
I
I EXHIBIT 2.22. Long Black Candle as Resistance
As a long white real body acts as a support area, so a long black real
body should act as resistance (see Exhibit 2.22). In Exhibit 2.23, long black
real body 1 penetrated an up trending support line. With the long black
candle at 1 and the long black real body six weeks earlier (at X), there
EXHIBIT 2.23. Long Black Candle as Resistance, Upjohn-Weekly
...-----------_.....-...-'-,.."".""'~ ...,
34 Candles
was now a resistance zone that could be used to exit longs or to go short,
on a bounce to that resistance.
Exhibit 2.24 displays a price explosion via a long white candle in late
1991. Using the theory of long candles, let us see how one could have
traded this market. A long white candle gives us a support area at 50%
within its real body. Consequently, a pullback to near the 50% retrace­
ment of the long white could be used as an early buying zone. This could
have been at areas 1 through 4. Now, we turn our attention to a price
target. Notice the exceptionally bearish long black real body from Sep­
tember 1991 (at the arrow). As discussed above, we would expect a rally
to stall as it approaches the top of this black candle. Although the bulls
were finally able to gather enough force to breach this resistance of the
long black candle, it took them over a year to accomplish this. Thus,
buying on a pullback into the long white with a minimum target to
September's long black real body could have been an effective trading
strategy.
AMEX - WEEKLY
30.0
29.5
29.0
28.5
28.0
27.5
27.0
26.5
26.0
25.5
25.0
24.5
24.0
23.5
23.0
22.5
22.0
21.5
21.0
20.5
20.0
19.5
19.0
18.5
18.0
M J'93 r M PI
I 1! l!~l!j ~!~~!!jQ~ ~
II L'--Y~) (3) 11(4)
tJI~t!
'91 N 0 '92 r M PI M J J PI SON 0
30.0
29.5
29.0
28.5
28.0
27.5
27.0
26.5 !~26.0
25.5
25.0
24.5
24.0
23.5
23.0
22.5
22.0
21.5
21.0
20.5
20.0
19.5
19.0
18.5
18.0
EXHIBIT 2.24. Long Black Candle as Resistance, Amex-Weekly
...... """'- --1
~
The Basics 35
Size, Frequency, and Color of Real Bodies
The tone of the market can be gauged by comparing the relative height,
frequency, and color of a group of candle lines. The first sign of trouble
in Exhibit 2.25 came with the long black candle at 1. Note how this is the
longest black candle in some time. Then, an appearance of an elongated
black candle at 2 was an evident warning sign of trouble. The price de­
scent continued until February's tall white candle at 3 arose. This was
the loftiest white real body in many months, and relayed that the bulls
had entered the market in force. Observe how the midpoint of February's
white real body became a base for a minor rally.
In the boxed section in Exhibit 2.26, we see a period in which the
market was trading laterally. With a bar chart, it would be difficult to
glean information about the relative strength of the bulls or the bears in
such an environment. With the candles, however, we can do this. In this
trading range environment, we can see that there were eight black real
c BRISTOL MYERS - DAILY
72
71
70
69
68
67
66
65
64
63
62
61
60
59
58 "
57
56
55
54
53
NO!) DEC '93 rEB MFlR FlPR
MetaStock by EQUIS Int'l
EXHIBIT 2.25. Size and Color of Real Bodies, Bristol Myers-Daily
bodies and only four white candles. Also, the black real bodies were taller
than the white ones. With more and larger black real bodies than white
real bodies, the candles tell us that the bears were taking a more aggres­
sive stance than were the bulls. Classic Western technical theory stated
that after a congestion band, the market's trend should have resumed in
the same direction that it had before the congestion band. In this ex­
ample, the preceding trend was down. Thus, the bearish candle action
during the lateral range reinforced the classic Western theory and in­
creased the odds of a continuation of the preceding downtrend.
In the next section, using information on how the open compares to
the close will be discussed. But before that, I will discuss new ways of
interpreting candle patterns. This methodology will help illuminate the
theory and market action behind each candle pattern. Each candle pattern
in this book will be illustrated four ways (refer to Exhibit 2.27).
Exhibit 2.27 (B) The blended candle-If the candle pattern has more
than one candle line, you can combine them to make a single candle line,
which I call a blended candle. This method is sometimes used in the Jap­
anese candlestick literature to help clarify whether a pattern is bullish or
bearish. The blended candle is an individual line that is a combination
of the open, high, low, and close of all the candle lines in the pattern.
36 Candles
14: 15 FIBO ( 0 of 2 ) CLQ3 DAILY BAR < 1993 CQG IHC.
0= 1793H= 1793·········· .. ··················· .. ··················· .
t;- t!;~A~. nt6* ••I
e._ 60LJI + U "0 '*~ U t +~ ,r,c>: .•. . .. . . . ... .
: I ~+ ~l :
'uuultll[o'Mt+,loru
. . . . . . . . . . . . .,. .
: : t1 , :
..... u··· ..............................•.........................................•... ····.u .. · ~DQlllflttt .
. . . : . . . . : . . . .,. .
,;.:uuuull'h t+ '.....
0= 1793 .
H= 1793L= 1745C= 1753 :May :Jun :Ju1
• 112 119 126 13 110 117 124 131 17 114 121 128 15 112
EXHIBIT 2.26. Relative Size, Frequency, and Color of Real Bodies, August 1993
Crude Oil
2100
2000
1900
1800
The Basics 37
As shown in Exhibit 2.27 (B), the blended candle is drawn using a four­
step process:
(D)
Directional Pattern
Analysis
(C)
Anchor Chart
c ~-~~~~-~~~~~~:_------­
oQ~--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~ --------------------------
Low of the
pattern
(A) (B)
Candle Pattern Blended Candle
EXHIBIT 2.27. Candle Pattern Analysis
1. Use the open of the first session of the candle pattern as the open of
the blended candle.
2. Use the high of the candle pattern (in other words, the top of the
highest upper shadow) as the high of the blended candle.
3. Use the low of all the sessions of that pattern (i.e., the bottom of the
lowest lower shadow) as the low of the blended candle.
4. Use the close of the last session of the candle pattern as the close of
the blended candle.
Based on the insight offered by the blended candle line in Exhibit
2.27, we can deduce that the two-candle combination in Exhibit 2.27 (A)
is a bearish combination. This is because the blended candle shows the
bearish aspects of a long upper shadow and small real body near the
bottom of the range.
Exhibit 2.27 (C) Anchor charts-Those who draw the candle charts by
hand and are tracking many markets or are restricted in time may find
this task to be burdensome. One way to circumvent this (besides buying
software) is to consider using anchor lines instead of candle lines. The
anchor chart as previously discussed, is composed of the open, high,
low, and close. If the anchor is pointing up, it means that the close is
higher than the open (with the arrow part of the anchor representing the
close). An anchor pointing down means that the close is lower than the
open.
Although the anchor chart is less visual than the candle chart, it pro­
vides the same information and is faster to draw. The disadvantage to
the anchor chart is that you don't have the quick color clue, as you do
------------------,.'""-
38 Candles
with the candle's white and black real bodies. But you can draw up
sessions in red and down sessions in black (remember, however, that
unless you have a color printer, all the anchor lines will be black when
a hard copy is printed).
Exhibit 2.27 (D) Directional Pattern Analysis-To clarify the market's
path that unfolds during the candle pattern, I will draw arrows reflecting
the market's basic intra-session action. I call this directionalpatternanalysis.
The path shown by the market's action in the directional pattern analysis'
can be used as a rough method to gauge the overall price action during
the session. Although the arrow in the directional pattern analysis will
show the path taken by the market during the session, it will not show
the order of when these prices where touched.
For example, based on the relationship of the real body and shadows
of the first white candle in Exhibit 2.27 (A), we know that, at some time
during the session, prices moved under the opening price. However, we
do not know when the price moved under the open. While the arrow in
Exhibit 2.27 (D) may make it appear that the market immediately moved
lower after the opening, it may not have unfolded that way. The market
instead may have rallied after the open and later in the session fell under
the opening price. Thus, it is important to keep in mind that the direc­
tional pattern analysis should be thought of as a visual clue about the
relative price action of the open, high, low, and close compared to one
another. However, it does not tell us the sequence of that price action.
Opening Compared to Prior Real Body
A disadvantage of candle charts is that they require the close to complete
the candle line. There are some ways around this limitation. One method
is to go to a shorter time. In other words, if you are looking at a daily
chart, you can sometimes get a signal on the hourly chart before the close
of the daily session. Another mechanism to bypass waiting for the close,
and the one I will focus on here, is comparing the opening to the prior
real body.
Exhibit 2.28 (A) illustrates that if the opening is under the midpoint
of the previous white real body, it could be a bearish scenario. Con­
versely, if the next day's opening is above the black body's midpoint, as
shown in Exhibit 2.28 (B), it could be viewed as a positive sign. This
concept might be useful for those who are more aggressive and risk­
oriented and would want to buy or sell on an opening rather than waiting
for a close.
This technique is more important for stocks than for futures. This is
because the futures market's higher volatility makes it more likely for the
The Basics 39
EXHIBIT 2.28. (B) Opening
Compared to Prior Real Body
EXHIBIT 2.28. (A) The
Traditional Candle Line or
Pattern
I
Center
Center
I I
I I
I I
--IT----
price to open away from the prior close (remember that for prices to open
above or below the prior real body's midpoint, it has to open away from
the prior close). However, for a stock, such an occurrence is rarer, and
as a consequence more significant.
The chart of Manville (Exhibit 2.29) gave three signals that it was in
trouble in mid-1992. First was the long upper shadow candle at the arrow
(shadows are discussed in detail in the next section of this chapter). This
showed the market rejected the $11 zone. The next signal was when
Manville opened under the center of the prior white real body. Final
bearish confirmation came the following week when the market gapped
lower.
In Exhibit 2.30, in the session marked by the arrow, the market opened
above the midpoint of the prior black real body. This positive develop-
--1-:--:.-:.-:.
I -r--
I
40 Candles
MANVILLE - WEEKLYr---------:~~~~-------:J
10.5
_ Long Upper Shadow
10.5
10.0
Middle of White Candle
Open 10.0
Spinning Tops
ment was reinforced by the white candle's high volume activity. This
volume showed the pressure of the buying force.
We have seen the power inherent in tall white or black real bodies. A
tall white body reflects a strong session in which the bulls are in control,
whereas a long black real body means that the bears are in charge. Now,
what would it mean if, instead of tall real bodies, there were small real
bodies? This would tell us that the bulls and bears are in a tug of war
and that there is more of a balance between supply and demand. Such
small real bodies, called spinning tops, tell us that the power to move
up or down is lacking, or as the Japanese phrase it, the "market is losing
its breath."
As shown in Exhibit 2.31, these are spinning tops even if the lower
and/or upper shadows are large. It is the diminutive size of the real bo~
6.5
7.0
7.5
8.5
9.5
8.0
9.0
191 N 0 192 F t1 Ft t1 J J Ft SON 0 '93 F t1 Ft t1 J
I III
7.0 ~ 1
6.5 r
8.0
8.5
7.5
9.0
9.5
EXHIBIT2.29. Open Under the Center of Prior White Real Body, Manville-Weekly
The Basics 41
RUBBERMAID - DAILY :J
EXHIBIT 2.31. Spinning Tops
28.5
29.5
29.0
30.5
30.0
31.5
35.0
31.0
32.5
32.0
33.0
33.5
34.5
34.0
1229 FI 05221508M16 2208
I ~H
600" ~, tt9~1' ~
'93 r
I A'oJ body can be
¢- black or white
29.5
28.5
29.0
30.0
31.5
30.5
35.0
34.5
32.0
33.5
31.0
33.0
32.5
34.0
EXHIBIT 2.30. Open Above the Center of a Black Real Body, Rubbermaid-Daily
that defines a spinning top. A spinning top is a warning sign that the
market is losing its momentum. For instance, if the market is at or near
a new high-especially after a steep advance-the emergence of a spin­
ning top could be a signal that the bulls are having trouble in continuing
their ascent. This could be a cautionary signal that the prior move is
stalling.
In Exhibit 2.32, the strong, long white real bodies at the end of July
left no doubt about who had control of this market-the bulls. But the
two spinning tops after these long white real bodies sent out a warning
42 Candles
DJI5 DAILY BAR e 1992 CQG INC.
t . : : : O·SPi~ning: ~. . ~~
: 'lr 34000
':: : : : ~:,,: :
" . .. ... . . . . . .
33500
33000
............................................................................... 32500
.Jul . .Aug
16 113 120 127 P 110 117
EXHIBIT 2.32. Spinning Tops, Dow Jones-Daily
that the bulls were unable to maintain the momentum of their advance.
The arrival of the spinning tops showed that the market was losing its
vitality. The black candles after the spinning top added more reason to
suspect a turn.
Accumulation and Distribution
One of the most powerful and important aspects of candle charts is their
ability to meld themselves with any other form of technical analysis. Let
us, for example, uncover how one candle (the spinning top), combined
with volume, can provide critical information about the inner workings
of the market.
Two key concepts relating volume to price action are those of accu­
mulation and distribution. Accumulation occurs when, at a low price
level, there is a high volume session with stagnant prices. The high vol­
ume relays that the bears are attacking full force, throwing all their re-
The Basics 43
................................................................... 2100
................................................................... 2200
(() 1993 CQG INC•CLJ3 DAILY BAR.
sources and ammunition into the fray. But the stagnant prices during the
session show that the bears are unable to drag down prices. All that the
bears have tried to sell has been accumulated by the bulls. After such a
scenario, the bears may either run out of ammunition or just give up.
The consequence of either of these is a rally.
Distribution is the opposite of accumulation. Distribution occurs when,
at a high price level, there is heavy volume but virtually frozen prices.
What is happening in such an environment is that the I' smart" money
is thought to be distributing their supply to meet all the buying that is
entering the market. With distribution, the sellers are offering enough
supply to meet all the buyer's demand, thus keeping prices in check.
Distribution should therefore be viewed as a topping scenario.
Note that as part of the definition for either accumulation or distri­
bution, there must be little price movement. A spinning top reflects a
session in which there is little price action (as defined by the difference
between the open and the close). So, by combining volume with spinning
tops, we can determine when there is accumulation or distribution.
CL DAILY VOL/OI: : : : : . :
:: ::~~~ ..
I~····:···:;· .~ ~. ';"'; ~ ~ ; .
... : : : : : : : : : : : : : 15000
llli ii"" :"::,I;;W!i: Illil@!iiii" "::::: l:~
10 17 14 21 128 14 11 18 25 11 18 115 122
EXHIBIT 2.33. Spinning Tops and
Accumulation, April 1993 Crude Oil­
Daily
44 Candles
Exhibit 2.33 shows that a spinning top candlestick emerged on January
12. Note also the heavy volume of that session. As describe above, stag­
nant prices and high volume at a low price level are classic signs of
accumulation. The high-volume spinning top in this example shows that
the selling pressure was easily absorbed. This positive sign was further
reinforced by the fact that this spinning top session made a new low for
the move, yet the bears were unable to maintain these new lows.
In Exhibit 2.34, June's tall white candle session was also a high-vol­
ume session. This was a very bullish development insofar as the market
moved up sharply with strong buying interest (as gauged by the high
volume). However, what occurred in the next session was cause for con­
cern. In that session, a small real body (i.e., a spinning top) emerged.
The volume on the spinning top session (circled on the chart) was not
as extreme as it was the prior day. Yet, looking back at the volume at
the bottom of the chart, we see that it was nonetheless a very high­
volume session compared to the prior periods. Consequently, there was
a high-volume spinning top session. What does that tell us? The high
volume reflects a market in which the bulls came out in force, but the
small real body-the spinning top-means that the bears were aggressive
enough to almost stalemate the bull's advance. This action was a classic
sign of distribution. The small real bodies over the next few sessions
0= 4360
H= 4395··················································................................................ 4750
L';' 4320 .
L= 4340
A= -96
EXHIBIT 2.34. Spinning Top and Distribution September 1991 Silver-Daily
4500
2000
4250
4000
6000
4000
o 1991 CGlG INC.SIU1 DAILY BAR8:25
11000 : ! : : : ?:..~?~.~ ..~~.l:(.~~ : : i····.r-~~....-:, .
···············i···································· :
. Candle .
..............: : .. '*'~"':""""':" ·0·····:·········:···:·····:·········:···t·····:·········:'~'~'~'~'6lQ""':""""':""""':""
0IQ'r .~ "I.,1t, I: ·~I~IB+oj+'~ '!O+I,I: : : : :.................., ~ '.ht·9·0·Q················································ ..............•.........•.•....••..•
6/24/91 010. . . . I.. . . . . . . .
0= 4360H= 4395 . . . . . '" . . . . . . .
L= 4320 .
c= 4340
•
The Basics 45
I
I
I
EXHIBIT 2.36. Doji After a Tall White Real Body
I
I
I
{
Low,
Open and
Close
High ..............
Low.,...-¥
Open and}
Close
Examples of Doji
EXHIBIT 2.35. Doji
Doji
continued to echo the inability of the bulls to propel this market. Note
how the longest real bodies following the spinning top were black. This
showed that the bears had gained a foothold on the market.
One of the more important individual candlestick lines is the doji. As
shown in Exhibit 2.35, a doji session has a horizontal line instead of a
real body. This is because a doji is formed when the session's open and
close are the same (or almost the same). If the market is trading laterallv,
a doji is neutral. In essence the doji is echoing, on a micro scale, the
indecision reflected on a more macro scale by the market's sideways
action. However, a doji that emerges after the mature part of an uptrend
or sell-off has a greater chance of a market turn. At such a time, the
Japanese say that a doji provides "a hint of tops and bottoms."
One should be especially cautious about a doji that arises after a tall
white candle which in turn appears after a significant uptrend. This is
true whether the doji is within the prior long white real body or above
it. Such action represents a disparity about the state of the market. Spe­
cifically, the rally and tall white candles during such a rally tell us that
the bulls are still in charge. But a doji means that the bulls are failing to
sustain the upside drive. This is shown in Exhibit 2.36.
How do you decide whether a near doji day (i.e., where the open
and close are very close, but not exact) should be considered a doji? One
method is to look at a near doji day and compare it to recent action. If
there is a series of very small real bodies, I would not view the near doji
day as significant since so many other recent periods had small real bod­
ies or doji. (Other methods are covered in my first book).
As mentioned before, a doji is meaningful when it arises after a tall
white candle during an uptrend. In this scenario, the market is consid-
..------------_......---_.....,,"", ...
46 Candles
If-----T---------­
n I I I
W I I
EXHIBIT 2.37. Doji as Resistance I
ered by the Japanese to be "tired." Also, as shown in Exhibit 2.37, the
top of a doji session (that is, the top of the upper shadow) often repre­
sents resistance. However, if the highs of the doji session are exceeded,
then the market's uptrend should continue. This is discussed in more
detail below.
A common mistake among those who use candtes is to use a doji as
an outright buy or sell signal. This is not correct. The doji indicates, as
the Japanese say, "a crossroads between the bulls and the bears." While
the doji can mean the market may reverse its prior trend, traders should
view the doji as echoing a market in transition rather than being an
outright reversal pattern. Based on this, traders should wait until the
next session or two after the doji to show them which way the market
will move.
If there is a doji during a rally, and if the market continues strong
after this doji, it is a bullish indication since the market has resolved itself
from the state of transition (as shown by the doji) to its new trend-Up.
Thus, while a doji that appears after a rally could be an indication of a
reversal (since the market is at a crossroads), it is best to wait for bearish
confirmation over the next day or two to get a top reversal confirmation.
For those who sell on a doji, the doji should act as resistance (see Exhibit
2.37). If the market closes above the high of the doji, the Japanese say
the market has become "refreshed." Based on this, a buy stop should
be placed above the high of the doji. The opposite would be true with a
doji in a downtrend. To wit, a doji in a downtrend shows that the market
is at a point of indecision, and a white candle after such a doji shows
that the market has resolved itself to the bull side. A buy based on the
doji after a downtrend should have a sell stop under the doji's low (in­
cluding the lower shadow). This is because such a scenario is viewed as
a bearish continuation signal.
One of the most fascinating aspects about candle charts is that, in
spite of their underlying simplicity, they provide so much valuable in­
formation about the state of the market. For example, what is more il-
+_dOji
I
I I I I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
(A)
doji-+
I I
I
(B)
I
I
doji- +
(e)
I
I
I
The Basics 47
I
doji-+
I
(0)
EXHIBIT2.38. Doji After Extended Move
lustrative of a market in balance than a doji? That simple, individual
candle line relays how a market is in a state of balance between the bulls
and bears. As a result, the market may be at a transition point. All this
information in one candle line!
An important aspect about doji (the plural of doji is also doji) is that
traders should look at where the doji appears in a trend. Exhibit 2.38
shows a doji in relation to the trend. As in Exhibit 2.38(A), the appearance
of a doji after a steep advance or in an overbought market could be a
top. However, as shown in Exhibit 2.38(B), if the market just started to
rise, it indicates there is less of a chance that the market is at a top. In
Exhibit 2.38(C) we see how the emergence of a doji after a precipitous
decline could mean a bottom. Exhibit 2.38(D) displays a market that has
just begun to fall. In this scenario, prices may continue their descent even
after a doji. The main concept behind Exhibit 2.38 is that doji become
more important as a reversal signal the more overbought or oversold the
market.
In Exhibit 2.39, we notice a rally that started in early November stalled
after two doji following a tall white candle. The appearance of these doji
told of a market in which the bulls and bears were in equilibrium. This
was very different from the prior session when the tall white candle
displayed a vibrant and healthy market in which the bulls were in control.
These doji were showing, as the Japanese would phrase it, that "the
market is separating from its trend."
As discussed before, doji become resistance. In this chart, there is also
a long black real body candle (at the arrow) a few days after the doji.
This black real body should also be resistance. With this in mind, the
doji sessions and the long black real body provided a resistance zone in
48 Candles
GAP-DAILY
38.0
~(r
38.0
37.5
II~
37.5
37.0 37.0
36.5 36.5
36.0 36.0
35.5
~II ! I II jll!Jlllu!~ lil
l
35.5
35.0 35.0
34.5 34.5
34.0 34.0
33.5 33. 5
33.0
~~! 33.0
32.5
III!!
32.5
32.0 32.0
31.5
'1)
31. 5
31.0 31.0
30.5 30.5
30.0 30.0
29.5 29.5
L 192 09 16 23 o 07 14 21 28 J 93 11 18 25 r 08 16 22 M 08 ..J
EXHIBIT 2.39. Doji After a Tall White Candle, Gap-Daily
the $37 to $38 area. It was within here that the market failed during the
early 1993 rally.
The arrow in Exhibit 2.40 points to a doji session in which the open,
low, and close are at the bottom end of the session's range. This doji is
known as a gravestone doji. A gravestone doji looks like a wooden me­
morial used in Buddhist funerals that is placed at a gravestone. It is said
that those who buy at a high price level after this doji will die and become
ghosts. (Those familiar with candle patterns will note how this doji was
part of a classic evening doji star pattern [this pattern is discussed in
Chapter 3]).
Exhibit 2.41 shows how the small real bodies at 1 and the doji at 2
warned that the market was losing its upside drive. After trading in a
lateral range for a few weeks, prices ascended to new highs in late Jan­
uary. However, there were two clues that the rally might not be sustain­
able. The first was the doji at 3. This showed that, although the market
had reached new highs, the upside drive had stalled. Another clue was
provided by the rate of change (ROC) oscillator. This oscillator compares
today's closing price to that of ten sessions ago.
For this example, I show the ten day ROC. This compares today's
close to that of ten days ago. With a healthy market, traders would like
to see an increasing ROC oscillator. This reflects that the market's upside
momentum is growing as prices are ascending. However, note how at
doji 2, Dell touched a new high, yet the ROC oscillator was at a lower
reading than it was at the prior highs in December. This underscores a
slackening of the upside drive.
Thus, the ROC oscillator helped reinforce the bearish implication of
doji 2. As further confirmation of a top, there was the long black candle
on the day after doji 3. A few days after this black candle, the ROC
oscillator fell under 0 (some technicians view that as a time to sell). This
chart is an example of how easy it is to combine the candles with Western
technical tools.
EXHIBIT 2.40. Gravestone Doji August 1993 Natural Gas-Intra-Day
0= 2170H= 2178L:;; 2070L"; 2078/\
A= -:-75
· / .
: : : : : : : i ~lt' : : : : :........:.....:.....:.....:.....:.....:.....:....·ift.. :.....:.....:.....:.....:.....:..
: : : . : . : ~~: llilk : : : :
· II . . n ·JI· tt·a . . I . . . .: ,t' -t: r
l
•
U 6
: J: T. :: ::::
.....i·' j : .·Iiii~jn:····:· ·lljill!:....:....:...-:If:····:···· :ji
,IIJ : : : : : : : : : I': II :~!~I'llt1tl
........:.....:.....:.....:.....:.....:.....:.....:.....:.....:.....l···'t.....:.....:...· . . . . . . . . .. ..· . . . . . . . . .. ..
The Basics 49
2100
2300
2200
I
NGQ3 60 MINUTE BAR
I 6/21I 6/14
(0:) 1993 CQG INC.13:43
7/12 13:00'0= 2095' .
H= 2095' .
L= 2070C= 2078
•
50 Candles
DELL & 10 PERIOD ROC 02/23/93 :J
o
-25
49
48
47
46
45
44
43
42
41
40
39
38
37
36
35
34
33
32
221608F2518112821
SHADOWS
While the real body is often considered the most important segment of
the candle, there is also substantial information to be gleaned from the
length and position of the shadows. Thus, the location and the size of
the shadow should also be considered when analyzing the psychology
behind the market.
A tall upper shadow is especially important when it appears at a high
price level, at a resistance area, or when the market is overbought. This
is because such a candle line would hint that there is either heavy supply
entering at higher prices or an evaporation of buying. In either case (see
Exhibit 2.42), a long upper shadow could be a bearish development. A
long lower shadow candle that bounces from a support area, or appears
in an oversold market, could be an important clue that the bears are losing
control.
49
48
47
46
45
44
43
42
41
40
39
38
37
36
35
34
33
32
L -'
EXHIBIT2.41. Doji and Momentum, Dell-Daily
The Basics 51
EXHIBIT 2.43. Long Upper Shadows Confirm Resistance, Notionnel Bond-Weekly
In Exhibit 2.43, in early 1992 there was a hint of trouble with the doji
following the tall white candle. Remembering the concept that the doji
session should be resistance, the market stalled at the doji's high over
the next two weeks. The two candles after the doji had long upper shad­
ows. These shadows displayed that there was either very aggressive sell­
ing near the 109 level, or that buying quickly evaporated near these highs.
In either case, these long lower shadows showed a dampening of the
rallying strength. Further evidence of the importance of this resistance
was the failure there in mid-1992.
Exhibit 2.44 displays that candles I, 2, and 3 rebounded from near
59<: via long lower shadows. These long lower shadows reflected the
solidity of the support and the eagerness of the buying. Also important
was the length of the base that had been built. For almost two months,
I r
Bulllish-Long Lower
Shadows EXHIBIT 2.42. Long Shadows
Bearish-Long Upper
Shadows
9:51 TREH ( 0 of 2 ) PH ~EEKLY BAR @ 1992 CGG IHC.
0= 11000H= 11028L;o 10994
L= 11004A
~.~ ~~.~ ~j; : : ~ 11000
. 'T\ Long Upper
10800
10600
'10/19192·· 10400
0= 10956H= 11028L= 10956C= 11002. Oct ·Jan Apr Jul Oct
• 11992
52 Candles
13:n nMM'l AILV RAR c 1993 CQG IH~.
~ ..~ ...u.jll':UU
~ ~~.u ..U.1Jjl~'ot....JJl.ltauu
L- 6180 " 2' "
C= 6216 "Feb "Mar "Apr
• 111 18 125 11 18 115 122 T1 8 15 122 129 5 112
EXHIBIT 2.44. Long Lower Shadows Confirm Support, June 1993 Deutsche Mark­
Daily
6200
6100
6000
5900
the bears tried to break prices under 59¢ and they failed. In general, the
longer the base, the more solid the scaffolding on which a rally can be
built.
A popular moving average among futures traders is the 65-day mov­
ing average. This line often swerves as support or resistance. For ex­
ample, note how in Exhibit 2.45 that it was support in early November
and again in early January. The test of this support in early January via
long lower shadows, shows how strongly and quickly the market sprang
from there. For those who are familiar with candles, the first long lower
shadow candle is a hammer. Hammers will be explained in the next
chapter.
High-Wave Candles
A candle with a long upper and lower shadows is called a high-wavecandle
(shown in Exhibit 2.46). It shows that the market is in a standoff between
the bulls and bears. When a high-wave emerges after a downtrend or
uptrend, the Japanese say that the market has lost its sense of direction.
This lack of market orientation means that the prior trend is in jeopardy.
125
The Basics 53
118
() 1993 CQG INC.
111
SPH3 DAILY BAR
19 116 123 130 17 114 121 128 14
43048.84···· .. ·.. ···························· .. ········································································ 41000.Dec .Jan
9:47
• 126 12
0= 44150
H= 44305
L=,.44100
L= 442451\
···210~~!~i~!uuu.~u.~~1!!t!lr~9i _0
. • . . . h I~ !f+j~l~' .Ii ll·~~I,~ '..
"'U·k~Jftu.u·!tg~>?," '3000
. ~ . ~Yji ~D ~+~ .• . . . ~~3/'/ .
...............A+'I'~"'j' ·Il~· "., '~L.:.:.:.:~.:.~:., ,.:~.:':':':':~':':':':':':':': ., ~ ...................................... 42000
11dl!L~ ~-~~ . . . . .. . . .
1/26/93
0" 44150
H= 44305
L= 44100······· ..
C= 44245
EXHIBIT 2.46. High-Wave Candles
A doji that has long upper and lower shadows is either called a high­
wave doji or a long-legged doji.
In Exhibit 2.47, a series of high-wave candles are displayed at I, 2,
and 3. The high-wave candle at 1 hinted that the bulls and bears were
at a standoff. The action that preceded candle 1 had a bearish bias. Thus,
with the appearance of high-wave candle I, the market had sent out a
clue that the trend was probably in the process of change. This outlook
was reinforced by the dual white candles after high-wave candle 1. The
market ascended from candle 1 until it got to another high-wave candle
(at 2). From there, prices declined sharply in the next session via a long
black real body. However, at the session after this long black real body,
a candle with an extended lower shadow (at X) showed that the lows
EXHIBIT 2.45. Long Lower Shadows Confirm Support, March 1993 S & P Futures­
Daily
54 Candles
CRUDE OIL - DEC. 1993
19.5 19.5
19.0
90 1 ol, (3)1~'t16? 0+,T
19.0
18.5
'0.
18.5
'++ 0 ~,~
18.0 18.0
17.5 tb O
X
17.5
(1)
17.0 17.0
16.5 f- 16.5
93 30 S 07 13 20 27 0 11 18 25 N 08 15
MetaStock by EQUIS Int'l
EXHIBIT2.47. High-Wave Candles, December 1993 Crude Oil
from the prior week had become an attractive buying area. As prices
ascended from candle X, a whisper of trouble emerged via the high-wave
candle at 3. Two days later the long black candle showed that the bears
had entered the market in force, and as a result, increased the likelihood
that the high-wave candle at 3 was a top reversal.
CHAPTER 3
THE PATTERNS..............................................................................
"He Whose Ranks are United in Purpose Will Be Victorious"
Since the publication of my first book, I have had new Japanese material
translated, have met new Japanese traders, and have continued my dia­
logues with those Japanese traders who have previously helped me. In
addition, I have also had another three years of hands-on experience. As
a result, I have gleaned new insights and concepts that will be conveyed
to you in this chapter.
This chapter will not be a reference to all the patterns that are in my
first book. Instead, my aim here is twofold. For those new to candles,
this chapter will reveal how some of the more common and important
candle patterns can provide powerful insights into your market analysis.
For those already knowledgeable about the candles, you will discover
new refinements and trading techniques. It is especially important to read
the detailed descriptions of the charts. It is in these that you will most
easily see some of the new refinements of candle theory, as well as some
new concepts.
As one of the Japanese books I had translated stated, lithe psychology
of the market participant, the supply and demand equation, and the
relative strengths of the buyers and sellers are all reflected in the one
candlestick or in a combination of candlesticks."l In this chapter, I will
describe the many uses and trading insights provided by individual can­
dle lines and candle patterns based on two or more candle lines. The
organization of this chapter is based on the number of lines that form
the pattern. Consequently, this chapter's first section will focus on in­
dividual candle lines, such as the hammer and shooting star. The next
section will delve into candle patterns comprised of two candle lines.
55
56 Candles
These include the dark cloud cover and two gapping black candles. The
final section in this chapter will address those candle patterns, such as
the evening star and record sessions, which have three or more candle
lines.
SINGLE CANDLE LINES
In Chapter 2, I detailed how the length of the shadows can relay infor­
mation about the resiliency of the bulls or the bears. For example, a long
upper shadow echoes the ability of the bears to regain control of the
market during a rally. A long lower shadow pictorially reflects the bulls'
ability to rally the market after the market's new session lows have been
made.
In this section, the single candle lines I will be describing (the ham­
mer, hanging man line, and the shooting star) either have a long upper
or lower shadow. But, because they also possess the important aspect of
having a small real body near the top or bottom of the trading range,
these candles lines take on increased importance when using candle
charts.
The Hammer
As shown by Exhibit 3.1, the hammer, with its long lower shadow and
a close near or at the high, is easily understood to be a bullish signal.
The term "hammer" derives from the fact that the market is "hammering
out a base," or that a bottom is so solid that it does not break, even
when a hammer knocks away at it.
I
I
I
EXHIBIT 3.1. The Hammer
The Patterns 57
An aspect of the hammer is that it must appear after a significant
downturn or in an oversold market to have significance. The hammer is
a reversal indicator, and as such, should have a downtrend to reverse.
A hammer that appears after a fall of, say, two or three days is usually
not important. Since the hammer is most useful after a significant down­
turn, it should be noted that there may be selling on a rally from the
hammer. As such, the first bounce from the hammer may fail and the
market may return to test the hammer's support.
Consequently, trading with the appearance of a hammer depends on
a trader's aggressiveness and risk adversity. Some traders may decide to
buy immediately after the hammer appears in case the market does not
pull back to retest the hammer. Some traders may decide to wait to see
if the market returns to the hammer, and if so, will buy on that return
move. If the market successfully tests the hammer's support area, there
is then a more solid support area and a better chance for a rally. A method
that I sometimes recommend to our clients is to lightly test the waters
from the long side after a hammer, and then add the remainder of the
long position after (and if) there is a successful test of the hammer.
Whichever methodology is used, a stop (based on the close) could be
placed under the lows of the hammer.
Exhibit 3.2 displays a classic hammer in that the extreme length of
the lower shadow reflects how aggressively the bulls were able to propel
prices off the lows of the session. The bounce from this hammer stalled
during the next few sessions. But the pullback held the hammer's sup­
port. This action helped enlarge the base upon which to build a more
substantial rally.
A trading tool that I find useful with candles is a Western technique
called a spring. As shown in Exhibit 3.3, a spring occurs when the bears
are unable to hold prices under a broken support area. Because such
action proves that the bears were unable to grab control of the market
when they had their chance, it should be viewed as a bullish develop­
ment. The opposite of a spring is an upthrust. An upthrust occurs when
the market makes a new high, but then fails to hold that high. Upthrusts
will be addressed in the section titled "The Shooting Star" later in this
chapter. (Springs and upthrusts are described in detail in my first book.)
An ancient oriental book on military tactics referred to gaining an
advantage over the enemy by acting as a "moving shadow." This term,
as used by the warrior who wrote that book, means that when you cannot
see the state of your opponent, you pretend to make a powerful attack
to uncover the intention of the enemy. This concept, as related to trading,
is one of the reasons a spring is so important.
Probes of support or resistance areas are attempted throughout the
markets by large-scale traders. They want to discover how the market
-----------------_.__....
58 Candles
MetaStock by EaUIS Int'l
EXHIBIT 3.2. Hammer as Support, Amgen-Daily
will react once a support or resistance area is pierced. In effect, these
traders act like the aforementioned "moving shadow," testing the bat­
tlefield by entering a large order to try and break support (or resistance).
For example, if a large-scale trader places a sell order as the market gets
near support, their sell order may be enough to drag prices under the
support area. Now, this trader, as a "moving shadow," will now learn
about the underlying strength of the market. If the market fails to hold
under a broken support area and forms a spring, these "moving shad­
ows," (i.e., the sellers who were attempting to probe the market), now
have learned about the tenacity of the bulls and as a result may decide
to cover their shorts.
Spnng
Support
EXHIBIT 3.3. Spring
AMGEN - DAILY
79 79
78
~Q·t~·1
78
77 77
7.f, 76
75
t~~T+~
75
74 74
73
~T~
73
72 72
71 71
70
~~t6IQ~'t~
~
70
69 69
68
~'t~'.~\~?~
68
67 67
66
~·.IOQ9IT.O ,
66
65 65
64
f6 tl ~
64
63
~~
63
62 62
61
'~'6 ~
61
60 60
59 59
58
Homm«1 'o,~
58
57 57
56 56
J 92 S 08 14 21 28 0 12 19 26 N 09 16 23 0
The Patterns 59
1:'>:28 GC WEEKLY BAR < 993 QG INC.
0" 3470H.. 3470
~ ~!l-ru.. lr·······································.········u .
"Ijl!t ..•
~~i~utjll~!I!uH,~u .
H= 3470 l! j.- Hammer
L= 3388 Pro Lc= 3465 =*n Apr Ju 1 Oct :Jon lOr ow Apr
• 11992 11993
EXHIBIT 3.4. Hammer and a Spring, Gold-Weekly
In Exhibit 3.4, we see one of the more powerful combinations of East­
ern and Western technicals-a hammer and a spring. The 1993 low was
formed by a hammer. This hammer was also a spring since the low of
the hammer's lower shadow slightly punctured a support zone, but
sprang back above this broken support line. Also of interest in this chart
is that the high made near $360 in mid-1992\was formed by a doji follow­
ing a tall white candle.
The Hanging Man
As shown in Exhibit 3.5, a hanging man has a very long lower shadow,
a small real body (white or black) near the upper end of the trading range
and little or no upper shadow. This is the same shape as the hammer
line. However, as expressed in the Japanese literature, "If it appears from
below, buy, and if appears from above, sell."
This phrase means that the same shape line can be bullish or bearish,
depending on where it appears in a trend. If this line appears "from
below," that is, during a decline, it is a bullish hammer. However, if this
same shape line appears "from above," that is, during an uptrend, it is
a sell signal and is referred to as a hanging man line.
3600
3500
3400
3300
60 Candles
/
Black
or White
r,-Close should be fT under hanging man's
I real body
I I
I
I
EXHIBIT 3.5. The Hanging Man I
Thus, the hanging man line is a top reversal signal that must arrive
during a rally, while the hammer is a bottom reversal line that must
appear during a decline; the same line can be bullish or bearish, de­
pending on the trend preceding it. In this context, it is interesting that
the Japanese have two words for rice. They call it either "raisu" or "go­
han." Raisu is the Japanese term for rice when it is prepared Western
style. The term "raisu" even sounds like the Western word "rice." Go­
han also means rice, but it is rice prepared Japanese style. In other words,
the Japanese refer to the exact same product-rice-by different names.
What surrounds the rice determines whether the rice is referred to as
raisu or gohan. So it is with the hammer and hanging man. Whether the
candle line is a bullish pattern (the hammer) or a bearish pattern (the
hanging man) is dependent on what precedes the line.
With the hanging man's long lower shadow reflecting buying interest,
it may seem that the hanging man is a bullish signal. However, the
hangman's action shows that once the market has fallen, it has become
very fragile. The small real body of the hanging man also shows that the
prior uptrend may be in the process of changing. Because of the bullish
action of the hanging man session (during the session the market sells
off and then rallies by the close), an important aspect of the hanging man
lines is that there should be bearish confirmation. A common method of
bearish confirmation of a hangman is to wait to see if the next session's
close is under the hanging man's real body. This is shown in Exhibit 3.5.
The reason for the importance of this confirmation has to do with the
fact that the hanging man's long lower shadow shows that there is still
rising power left in the market. However, if prices fall under the hanging
man's real body, it translates into the fact that everyone who bought at
the open or close of the hanging man session is now losing money. In
such a scenario, these longs may decide to liquidate, and by doing so,
may engender a further weakening of prices.
Since my seminar on the candles at the World Bank in Washington,
The Patterns 61
C 270ct'H 22.02 Tec hu i ce I An"l~sis 3.01
DC, some of their traders have asked my opinion on candle patterns on
various markets. One of their traders asked what I thought about the
chart of the German Bund shown in Exhibit 3.6. She asked my opinion
on April 10 after the hanging man was formed. I explained to her that if
the hanging man were confirmed by a weaker session the next day, the
outlook would be bearish. In this case, the market confirmed the bearish
hanging man during the next session.
Exhibit 3.7 shows how important it is to wait for confirmation of a
hanging man session. In that chart, we see a hanging man. However,
note how the following week the bulls pushed prices above the high of
the hanging man. This means that those who bought during the hanging
man session now have a profit. Consequently, there is little reason for
them to liquidate their longs. The result is that a higher close than the
hanging man session voids any of the bearish potential of the hanging
man. That is what happened here as the market exceeded the hanging
man session. Also of interest in this chart is that in April 1992, there was
a hammer that was also a bullish spring, since the hammer made a new
low which failed to hold.
An article about my work with candles in The Wall Street Journal dis­
played the chart shown in Exhibit 3.8. In this article, I discussed how the
hanging man at $40 helped confirm a top. I explained that before the
1990 Mid-east crisis, the highest crude oil futures reached was around
$32 (crude oil futures began trading in 1983). Once the market exceeded
that level, I had a target at around $40. That was a resistance area in the
cash market back in 1979. Note that at the $40 area, there was a bearish
candle signal via the hanging man line. The market retreated from this
$40 level and tested a support line. It then rallied and, with sort of a last
EXHIBIT 3.6. Confirmation of
a Hanging Man, German
Bund-Daily
88
88.2
06Mar92 131tar ZOMar 271'ar 03Apr 10Apr 17Apr 24Apr
GERMAH BUHD CAHDLE STICK (DAILY)
Reuters Graphics
62 Candles
• 11992 11993
EXHIBIT 3.7. Waiting for Confirmation of a Hanging Man, Bonds-Weekly
9:21 CLXO DAILY BAR © 1990 CQG INC.
0= 3050·························································································································· . .. . . .. . . .. . . . .. 5000
H= 3100
L= 2995
L= 3030V6= -349
2000
4000
3000
115 122113 120 127 13 110 117 124 11 18
10/22/90
0= 3050
H= 3100
L= 2995
C= 3030 :Aug
,.
7:58 BO WEEKLY BAR 7<: 1993 CQG INC.
0= 11028
~~ HUr··..···.. ·~··································· .. ······ ~ !.~ 11200
. . . . Not
HHllH~"·'m~i 10800
10400
~tlilHlf~'I~H~~h1J~~HHH 10000
1; ftrll
93
~~ . lOY Hom_·
L= 11027 I---
C= 11109 'Jan Apr Jul Oct 'Jan
· . .
· . . Hanging Man
HH!j~O~t~I'~1'9'
O· :I~' . ~ •.
TTOO .
............................ : 'i'.•........... : 0.•...,j.''j'.t.:... . : + .
• 1;1' 'i'
· oot -? !.:c
. : t.,.T'.j.o~'¢1;I .
T
[J0-.0·-:- .
......~:~.~.-:- .
• 123 130 16
EXHIBIT 3.8. Hanging Man Confirms Resistance, November 1990 Crude Oil-Daily
The Patterns 63
II II II III
III' III' III' I, New Resistance
FormerSupport 'I II',
II II
I
Former Resistance 1
111
III II
EXHIBIT 3.9. Change of Polarity Principle
1900
2000
2100
c 1993 CQG INC.
114 ~1 ~ ~ Jll ~8 ~5 ~
CLH3 DAILY BAR
:Dec
116 123 130 17
21 5193 · · ·· 1800
0= 2020H= 2021
L= 2014C= 2016
• /2 19
0= 2020H= 2021L,. 2014L= 2016/\
1>= -14
EXHIBIT 3.10. Hanging Man and the Change of Polarity Principle, March 1993 Crude Oil
gasp, the bulls temporarily nudged the market above $40 before the floor
fell out of the market.
There is a basic Western technical concept that states that a penetrated
resistance area should then be converted to support and a broken support
area should be resistance. I call this concept the changeof polarityprinciple
(it is discussed in detail in my first book). This concept is shown in Exhibit
3.9. I find the change of polarity a very useful tool, especially when joined
with candles. You should find that the more often a support or resistance
area is tested before prices break them, the better the change of polarity
principle should work.
In Exhibit 3.10 we see that an evident support area from mid- to late
64 Candles
November was slightly above $20. Once this important support was bro­
ken, the change of polarity rule implied that this $20 support should then
become resistance. This is what unfolded as this $20 resistance area was
confirmed with the mid-December hanging man session. The long black
real body, also near $20, on December 28, showed that the bears had
taken control.
The Shooting Star
A session with a long upper shadow and a small real body near the
bottom end of the trading range is called a shootingstar(see Exhibit 3.11).
Just as the long lower shadow of a hammer is bullish, so the long upper
shadow of the shooting star is bearish. The long upper shadow means
that the bears have been able to sharply drag prices back from their highs.
In Exhibit 3.12, we see how the mid-August shooting star's long upper
shadow reflected the aggressiveness of the bears. Following this shooting
star, another symptom of market uncertainty came with the high-wave
candle. The fact that the shooting star and the high-wave candle both
appeared near the psychologically important 100 area reinforced the im­
portance of those signals.
In Exhibit 3.13, I show how a support area from late August (marked'
S) changed to resistance through September and into October. The Oc­
tober failure of this resistance area was via a shooting star. The long upper
shadow of this line reflected the heaviness of supply towards the 1.66
level. Another attempt to breach 1.66 failed in early October with a long
black real body.
In the section on hammers, I discussed the concept of springs (when
the price springs back above a broken support area) and that the opposite
of a spring is an upthrust. As shown in Exhibit 3.14, an upthrust is
created when prices break above a resistance area, but then retreat back
under the previously broken resistance. This scenario has bearish impli-
EXHIBIT 3.11. The Shooting Star
White Ior
Black~
I I
I I
I I
I I
EXHIBIT 3.12. Shooting Star with a High-Wave Candle, September 1993 Japanese
Yen
12::>' FDlX OAI Y BAR ~ 1993 ;QG IHC
0= 16037
H= 16044· ..
L= 15910 . . .
L'= 15915B··································· .•············.···········,··············································,··········· ........•...... 17500
9/13/93
lP 9430
Hot 9480
L- S'39Oe- S'39O" 'Jul "Auq "SeP 8500
• 114 121 128 15 112 119 126 12 19 116 123 130 16 113
11
The Patterns 65
c 1993 QG HCY 3 OA Y BAR
• 112 119 126 12 19 116 123 130 16 113 120 127 14
..............: ,..+~.+ : :.. :.t '.a.ll.. :.9.' :.. . :.. . :.... :....:..: : .. ~. . .
.................................................................................................................................................... 10000
. Shooting 1TrHigh - wave. • ... . • . S ~ * .candle . .. ~r _+ T .
: : ..': : : : : : Oij : ~, .. : :
0- 9430
Ha 9480
L- 9390
L- 9390VA.. -17
.......:....: :........: :::.........'+~t,~ ~.:.. .t.. :.:.. .J.~ 16000
10/12/93 . . , . . . ... . ~. . . . .
o· 16037 .
H= 16044
L= 15910
C· 15915 .Aug .Sep . .oct
EXHIBIT 3.13. Shooting Star and the Change of Polarity, Cash Deutsche Mark
66 Candles
/upthrust
I
I I II
II I1 1I III I II
I " I I
Resistance ----.----.-----r''r----
EXHIBIT 3.14. An Upthrust
cations. At times, the upper shadow of a shooting star can also be part
of an upthrust.
In Exhibit 3.15, there is a shooting star that pierced the January 7 and
8 resistance area with its long upper shadow. The failure of the bulls to
keep prices in the new territory created a bearish upthrust.
To help clarify the difference between the hammer, hanging man, and,
shooting star lines, I have annotated Exhibit 3.16 with an example of each
candle line. Note that for each signal the market must be in a clearly
defined trend.
1. Shooting star-We can see how the shooting star must appear after
an uptrend. The shooting star's long upper shadow reflects market
rejection of higher prices.
• I 1/ 2 I 1/ 3 I 1/ 51 1/ 6 I 1/ 7 I 1/ 8 I 1/ 9 I 1/10
1/10 7: 20···························································································································· ..... 10300
0= 10427
H= 10427
L= 10331
C= 10400
0= 10425'
H= 10427·
L= 10331.
L= 1040011a= -24'..................................................................................................................................................... 10600
Shooting
· .. ., ., :: : ~ ~~~~~~ .
· ., ., ., ., ~~~ . 1~~ . .
............: : : ij~'O~·~L···lt+,·····6 .....•.......•....10'00
~
- I .. .. .t"'9tO+ !.. .. In+Otb
I .. . ~+ itt "'I T .' .. y'
I :: :: T~'~I:' .. .. :
: IT.LT· : tT: :: :: :: :
10400
· ':~ .. ., .. .. .
@ 1992 CQG INC.80H2 60 MINUTE BAR8:02
EXHIBIT 3.15. Shooting Star and Upthrust, March 1992 Bonds-Intra-Day
The Patterns 67
DISNEY - DAILY
MetaStock by EQUIS Int'l
47.5
47. 0
46.5
46.0
45.5
45.0
44.5
44.0
43.5
43. 0
42.5
42.0
41. 5
41. 0
40.5
40.0
29 f1221508M16 2208F25181128 1 93
47.5
47.0
46.5
46.0
45.5
45.0
44. 5
44.0
43. 5
43.0
42.5
42.0
41. 5
41. 0
40. 5
40. 0 L-----,---r---,.----r---,---,---r------,---,--,--.----,.----r---,--...----r-..--'
)92 21
EXHIBIT 3.16. Hammer, Hanging Man, and Shooting Star Lines, Disney-Daily
2. Hammer-A long lower shadow candle that must appear during a
downtrend.
3. Although this has the correct shape of a hammer or hanging man line
(a long lower shadow with a small real body near the highs of the
session), candle 3 is neither a hammer nor a hanging man. This is
because this line did not appear during an uptrend or a downtrend,
but was in the middle of a trading range. Thus, line 3 is not a hammer
(although the long, lower shadow could be viewed as a positive sig­
nal).
4., 7. Rallies preceded these hanging man lines, which were confirmed
during the next session by a close under the hanging man's real body.
In line 7, we can see a small upper shadow. If the upper shadow is
relatively small, it is still considered a hanging man. (A small upper
shadow is also allowable with a hammer.) Note how the real body of
the hanging man can be white or black.
5. This line has the correct shape of a shooting star (a tall upper shadow
and a small real body at the lower end of the session's range). How­
ever, since it does not appear after an uptread, it does not have the
bearish implications as would a traditional shooting star.
68 Candles
6. This particular hammer should be viewed as being relatively unim­
portant since it appeared only after a minor downtrend. It did, how­
ever, show, via its long lower shadow, a successful test of a support
area near $43 from the late January and early February lows.
To summerize, always look at the preceding trend to determine if the
hammer, shooting star, or hanging man lines should be acted upon.
Remember that as reversal signals; they need a prior trend to reverse.
DUAL CANDLE LINES
EXHIBIT 3.17. Dark Cloud Cover
Dark Cloud Cover
If close on second
day not under
middle of white _-;'-+---11..-­
real body wait for
confirmation
-------r-----
I
Blended
-------- "/candle
In the preceding section, I looked at individual candle lines. In the re­
mainder of this chapter, I will review some of the more important or
common candle patterns that are comprised of two or more candle lines.
A dark cloud (shown in Exhibit 3.17) shows, as the Japanese express it,
that the market has a poor chance of rising. The dark cloud cover's first
candle is a strong white session. During the next session, there is buying
pressure left over and the market opens higher, but later in that session,
prices decline as the market closes under the center of the previous ses­
sion. This pattern reflects a period in the market when the upward power
of the tall white candle has been dissipated by next session's weak black
candle. Note how the blended candle line in Exhibit 3.17 has a longer
The Patterns 69
upper shadow. In other words, the dark cloud cover displays pictorially
a time in the market in which selling pressure is exceeding the buying
pressure.
An ideal dark cloud cover's second session should close under the
midpoint of the prior white candle. If the black candle does not close
below the halfway point, it is considered by some Japanese traders to be
an incomplete dark cloud cover. In such cases, it is best to wait for con­
firmation during the next session in the form of a weaker close. As a
general rule, the deeper the close of the dark cloud cover's second session
pushes into the white candle, the more bearish the signal.
A dark cloud that fails to move under the center of the prior candle
is shown in Exhibit 3.18. Looking at the blended candle in Exhibit 3.18,
we see how there is less of an upper shadow than in the case of the more
classic dark cloud cover's blended candle shown in Exhibit 3.17. This
means the dark cloud cover in Exhibit 3.18 may be less bearish than a
standard dark cloud cover. This is why there should be confirmation by
further weakness after the type of dark cloud cover shown in Exhibit
3.18.
There is a difference in how I would view the dark cloud cover in
stocks and futures. The ideal dark cloud cover has the second session's
open above the high of the prior session. Since there is generally higher
price volatility in the futures market as compared to stocks, it means that
I am more flexible about the definition of a dark cloud cover with stocks
than with futures. Specifically, with stocks I still view it as a dark cloud
cover if the second session opens above the prior session's close, rather
than its high. This is shown in Exhibit 3.19.
EXHIBIT 3.19. Dark Cloud Variation 2
Open of candle (2)
above close of candle (1)
I
I
Close of candle (2) above
midpoint of candle (1)
r
19t=------
I
EXHIBIT 3.18. Dark Cloud Variation 1
70 Candles
However, if the second session of the dark cover of a stock does open
above the prior session's high (instead of its close), it would be more of
a potential reversal signal. This is because it is more bearish if the market
reverses after failing from a new high than it is if the market fails from
an area that was not a new high.
A dark cloud cover often becomes resistance. In Exhibit 3.20, we see
a dark cloud cover in late January near $75.50. The market retreated from
there until a hammer (that was also a spring) formed near $69 in Feb­
ruary. The rally from this hammer stalled in March at the resistance set
by the dark cloud. However, as with any form of technical analysis, there
should be a price at which you should reconsider your original outlook.
For a pattern like the dark cloud cover, if the market closes above the
high of the dark cloud cover, the chances are that the market will continue
its upward path. In this example, observe how the market not only closed
above the high of the dark cloud cover in late March, but did so via a
bullish rising gap. Another interesting aspect of this gap is that the ses-
SW BELL- DAILY
83
82
)92071+ 2128'9311 1825 F 081622 M 0815 22 29~ 121926
MetaStock by EQUIS Int'l
EXHIBIT 3.20. Dark Cloud Cover as Resistance, Southwest Bell-Daily
83
82
81
80
79
78
77
76
75
7+
73
72
71
70
69
The Patterns 71
sion after the gap created a shooting star. Yet the bearish implications of
the shooting star was not confirmed since the market failed to close under
the rising gap (this will be discussed in detail later in this chapter under
the section on "windows"). Thus, when selling short based on a dark
cloud cover, consider a stop on a close above the highs of that pattern.
For those who are looking to buy, you should consider it when on the
close, prices pierce the high of the dark cloud cover.
Exhibit 3.21 is an example of two less than ideal dark cloud covers at
1 and 2. Dark cloud cover 1 was not ideal since the second session (the
black candle) failed to close under the mid-point of the prior session.
Dark cloud cover 2 lost some of its bearish importance because the second
session of the pattern opened just above the prior close instead of the
prior high. Yet, since both of these non-classic dark cloud covers emerged
so close to one another, they served to reinforce each other. In other
words, both dark cloud covers reflected the fact that as prices made new
highs near $45, the bears were able to drag prices back down under the
MetaStock by EQUIS Int'l
15.5
15. 0
H.5
H.O
13.5
+3.0
12.5
12.0
11. 5
11. 0
10.5
10.0
12 19 26 N 09 16 23 0S081+ 21280~ 10 17 2127
~Cl~11~ ~I~ II ~ F~U"g
II ~ IIII I
Ii) 1\11 ~I
'tit
EASTERN KODAK - DAILY
10. 0 L...---.---.------.-_r__---.-----.--...--.....-.....--.----.-----..-..------.---.------.-......--.------.------.-----......--'
)92
15.5
15.0
H.5
H.O
13.5
+3.0
12.5
12.0
11. 5
11. 0
10.5
EXHIBIT 3.21. Dark Cloud Covers in Close Proximity, Eastman Kodak-Daily
72 Candles
YC 270ct93 21:47 Technical Analysis 3.01
I
HOcl Candle Stick
I I
(Dai ly)
I
Dark Cloud
Cover
I AlIIOunt
6500
6400
&300
6200
&100
120ct92 2&Oct
Reuters Graphics
I
09Noll
I
23tt01l
I
07Dec
I
21Dec
I
04Jan
EXHIBIT 3.22. Dark Cloud Cover Confirms Resistance, February 1993 Heating Oil
prior closes. This is not a healthy scenario. The gap lower was final proof
of a break to the downside.
Exhibit 3.22 shows a congestion band between 59 and 60<:: during the
first half of November. When the market trends laterally for an extended
period, the congestion zone often becomes a resistance or support area
once prices break out of that range. This is because the longer the market
trades sideways, the more traders get involved in the market as either
buyers or sellers. In this example, once prices broke under the bottom
end of the early November congestion band, those who went short while
the market was within the lateral band were making a profit on the
downside breakout. However, those who went long while the market
was within that early November trading band were in a losing trade when
prices broke under the bottom end of the congestion band. This means
that if the market rallies back up to the congestion band, those longs may
use that rally to try to get out of their losing trade. In other words, the
existing longs should be new sellers on rebounds to the congestion band.
In Exhibit 3.22, once the early November congestion area was broken, it
then became resistance. The December failure at that resistance area came
with the dark cloud cover (the empty area between the two candles of
the pattern was due to a holiday).
EXHIBIT 3.23. The Piercing Pattern
I
Close above prior black
candle's center
The Patterns 73
the last of the bulls that were backed into a corner and came out fighting
in a heroic fight. Kamikaze fights are always frightening, so the bears
seeing this take to the sidelines for the moment. In this quiet period, the
bulls may get reinforcements, or after all the selling that has occurred,
the supply road for the bears may be already broken.' -i
As shown in Exhibit 3.23, the piercing pattern is the opposite of the dark
cloud cover. The dark cloud cover appears after an uptrend, and is com­
prised of a black real body that closes well into the prior white body. The
piercing pattern is a white real body that closes within the prior black
real body. This pattern shows that there is fierce buying at lower levels.
The following is an interesting and graphic explanation used in a
Japanese book to describe what happens during the formation of the
piercing pattern
The Piercing Pattern
In other words, the downward energy of the market has been dissipated.
There are various names for the two candle patterns that have the
second white candle close less than halfway into the prior black candle.
These are discussed in detail in my other book. For the purposes of the
discussion here, these names are unimportant. What is important is the
general concept that the more the white candle pierces the black candle,
the more constructive the signal. If the white candle fails to move deeply
into the black candle, it reflects a weak counterattack by the bulls and
EXHIBIT 3.25. Piercing Pattern and Retracement, Disney-Weekly
74 Candles
selling could resume. As illustrated in Exhibit 3.24, you can see that a
pattern that has the second session below the midpoint of the prior black
candle creates a blended candle with a short lower shadow. Note, by
comparison, the long lower shadow of the blended candle in Exhibit 3.23.
This shows the bulls successfully mounted a strong counterattack. Also
consider that the lower the second candle's opening, the longer the lower
shadow of the blended candle will be. This means that a piercing pattern
that has a low opening second session and then closes well into the prior
candle would be an optimum example of that pattern.
48
47
46
45
44
43
42
41
40
39
38
37
36
35
34
33
32
31
30
29
28
27
r
- - - - - - - - - ~ - -
~------­
«.EXHIBIT 3.24. White Candle Under Center of Prior Black Candle
191 DEC 192 FEB MAR APR MAY JUN JUL AUG SEP OCT NOli DEC 193 FE8 MAR APR
DISNEY - DAILY
48
V ~~
j! ~~ ~"
41
40
39
38
37
36
~ ~~ . ~ng t
31 Pattern
E~, ,J
27 f+6~
L
r
The Patterns 75
• 123 130 16 113 120 127 14 111 118 125 11 18 115 122
EXHIBIT 3.26. Piercing Pattern Confirms Support, Silver-July 1992
6125192
0- 4025Hz 4040 .
L= 4015
C= 4030 "Apr 11ay 'Jun
4100
4000
3900
4200
<9. 1992 CQG IHC.SIH2 CAll Y BAR
0- 4025
H- 4040
l.!" 4015
L- 4030
6- +7
·····.. ·········~·····I································ : : .
~t '
I j . . Hang!ng Man
~h r ~ ~. :.. : LJ~
: . Hammer I'nL . P;9.oO'
. ~patterns
It has been my experience that dark cloud covers are more prevalent
than are piercing patterns. Part of the reason may have to do with an old
Wall Street saying, "In on greed, out on fear." Although both greed and
fear are strong emotions, I think many would agree that of the two, fear
is the one that could cause the most volatile markets. During market
bottoms, traders or investors usually have the opportunity to wait for an
opportunity to enter the market. They may bide their time and wait for
a pullback or for the market to build a base, or to see how the market
reacts to news. Fear is more prevalent at tops. Fear is saying, "I want
out-now!"
In Exhibit 3.25 we see that an advance that started in late 1991 stalled
at the doji following the tall white candle. The extended upper shadow
in May echoed the importance of the resistance area set by this doji. The
market then retreated until August's piercing pattern. The piercing pat­
tern was also at a support area based on a 50% retracement of the rally
from the December low to the May high. The 50% retracement area should
be closely monitored by traders because such retracements are widely
watched by technicians. This pattern became support that was held in
October with a high-wave candle. The rally from this base near $33 stalled
at another doji following a tall white candle in early 1993.
Exhibit 3.26 displays that April's piercing pattern confirmed a support
76 Candles
area provided by the prior week's hammer. Another piercing pattern in
late May and early June signaled a temporary base for another assault at
May's resistance area near $4.15. A series of two hanging man lines
appeared at that resistance. Note how the first hanging man was not
confirmed (since the next session did not have a lower case). Only on
the day after the second hanging man session, with its close under the
second hanging man's real body, was the hanging man line confirmed.
The Engulfing Patterns
An engulfing pattern is a two candle pattern. A bullish engulfing pattern
(shown in Exhibit 3.27A) is formed when, during a downtrend, a white
real body wraps around a black real body. A bearish engulfing pattern
(Exhibit 3.27B) is completed when, during a rally, a black real body en­
velops a white real body.
The engulfing pattern visually shows how the opposing forces had
gained control of the market. For example, a bullish engulfing pattern
reflects how the bulls have wrested control of the market from the bears.
A bearish engulfing pattern shows how a superior force of supply has
overwhelmed the bulls. The Japanese say that with a bearish engulfing
pattern, "the bulls are immobilized." We previously saw how with the
dark cloud cover, the bears were able to move prices into the prior white
real body, but with the bearish engulfing patterns, the power of the bears
was such that they were able to pull the close under the entire prior
white real body. The same concept can be used to compare a piercing
pattern to a bullish engulfing pattern. With the piercing pattern, the bulls
counterattack strongly enough to push the close of the second white real
body well into the prior black real body. However, with the bullish en­
gulfing pattern, the bulls' strength is that much greater since the close
of the white candle session is above the top of the prior black real body.
Although this generally means that the bearish engulfing pattern is more
bearish than a dark cloud cover, and a bullish engulfing pattern more
bullish than a piercing pattern, it is equally important to see where these
patterns emerge before deciding which is more important. For instance,
a piercing pattern that confirms a major support area should be viewed
more likely as a bottom reversal signal than a bullish engulfing pattern
that does not confirm support. This vital aspect of viewing the candle
patterns in conjunction with the overall technical picture will be discussed
in depth in the next chapter.
The basic definition of an engulfing pattern is that the second real
body must engulf an opposite color real body. However, not all engulfing
patterns are equally important. The importance of the engulfing pattern
EXHIBIT 3.27. Bullish
and Bearish Engulfing
Patterns
t
l
(B) Bearish Engulfing Pattern
(A) Bullish Engulfing Pattern
The Patterns 77
is dependent on the relative size of the real bodies, the relationship of
the shadows to one another, and other factors. For example, the strictest
definition of an engulfing pattern would be if the first candle is small and
the second candle very large, and the second real body wraps around
the entire first candle-including its shadows. The next strictest definition
would be if the shadows of the second candle exceeded the shadows of
the first candle (in other words, on the second day of the engulfing
pattern, the market made a higher high and a lower low).
78 Candles
As with a dark cloud cover, if the market surpasses an engulfing
pattern, it is said to go opposite to the pattern. This means that if prices
close above the top of the bearish engulfing pattern (including the upper
shadows), the outlook turns from bearish to bullish.
Aspects addressed in this section's charts include:
1. how engulfing patterns become support and resistance;
2. how an engulfing pattern can be combined with Western technical
tools;
3. why traders should be more flexible in defining an engulfing pattern
with stocks compared to futures;
4. the importance of comparing the size of the two real bodies of the
engulfing pattern;
5. the danger signal of a bearish engulfing pattern after a doji.
In Exhibit 3.28, the first sign of trouble was with the high-wave candle
in late August. During the first two sessions of September, more trouble
arose with a bearish engulfing pattern. The market backed off from there,
and found support at the mid-August rising gap. (We will look at how
gaps become support or resistance later in this chapter.) The rally from
14: 24 SPZ3 DAILY BAR 7c 1993 CQG INC.
0= 45540
H= 45680
L= 44910· . .
L=~····.······.····· .. ··· ·· · 4700J
A= -380· . Bearish EngUlfing
: . Pattern
. . High-Wave r\
· .•. . . . •. . ! irtr-T -
UUQtiJltul~t~·jI4"OJ· ... . . . . ·n, ... j~. .
~" : : ?+ ~ U Gap ~
4500J
· : . 0 ": :
......................................................................................... , 4400J
9/21/93
0= 45540
H= 45680
L- 44910
c= 45185 .Jul .Aug .Sel"
• 121 1285 /12 /19 126 12 19 116 123 130 ~ ~3 120
EXHIBIT 3.28. Bearish Engulfing Pattern as Resistance, December 1993 S&P
The Patterns 79
this gap stalled at the resistance area set up by the bearish engulfing
pattern.
Exhibit 3.28 also displays how the candles can offer reversal signals
not available to those using Western technical tools. With Western tech­
nicals, there is a reversal signal called a top outside reversal session,
sometimes also known as a key reversal. This occurs when prices make
a new high for the move and then close lower than the previous session's
close. Note how in the bearish engulfing pattern highlighted in the
5 & P was not a reversal session since the second session of this bearish
engulfing pattern (i.e., the black candle) failed to make a new high for
the move. Yet, because the black candle enveloped the white candle, it
was a bearish engulfing pattern. Consequently, while no reversal pattern
was revealed with western technicals, there was a reversal with candle
charts.
In Exhibit 3.29, we see how a selloff in December commenced with
the doji following the tall white candle. This area's resistance was con-
tt.5
tt.o
43.5
43.0
42.5
42.0
41. 5
41. 0
40.5
40.0
39.5
39.0
COCA-GOLA - DAILY
Long
~ I
Bullish
Engulfing
Pattern
'92 0 07 14 21 28 J 93 11 18 25 F 08 16 22 M 08 15 22 29
+t.5
+t.o
43.5
43.0
42.5
42.0
41. 5
41. 0
40.5
40.0
39.5
39.0
MetaStock by EQUIS Int'l
EXHIBIT3.29. Bullish Engulfing Pattern as Support, Coca Cola-Daily
80 Candles
firmed by the long upper shadow candle near $44 a few sessions later.
The selloff found a base in January 1993 near $40 via a bullish engulfing
pattern. From there, the market rallied, and again stalled via a long upper
shadow candle near the previously discussed resistance area of $44.
Based on the action described thus far, we know that $44 is resistance
and the bullish engulfing pattern near $40 is support. Thus, for traders
looking for a buying zone, it could be done on corrections to the bullish
engulfing pattern (near $40) with a target towards $44 and a stop on a
close under the lows of the bullish engulfing pattern. This scenario un­
folded in February. The concept of risk-reward is very important. Before
placing a trade with candles or any other form of technical analysis, risk­
reward must always be considered (in Chapter 4, I will discuss this critical
subject in more depth).
Exhibit 3.30 displays a classic bearish engulfing pattern near $50. It
was classic since a very tall black real body enveloped a very short white
real body. In March, there was another bearish engulfing pattern. This
DELL
50
A II
50
49 49
48
011+1"1D! jI~ I~
48
47 47
46 ~ ~ til?! ~ II I! Bearish Engulfing 46
45 Patterns 45
44
~~
44
43 43
42
I!~,
42
41
~~lll(
41
40 40
39
~I I
39
38
'II ~Il ~I~
38
37 37
36
IQI!i~Q Ill!
36
35
,~I ~
35
34
'tIO'~
34
33 33
32
!~!IDtl~~
32
31 31
30 30
29 29
)92 14 21 28 )93 11 18 25 F 08 16 22 M 08 15 22 29 A 12
MetaStock Software by EQUIS
EXHIBIT 3.30. Engulfing Pattern Confirms Retracement, Dell-Daily
The Patterns 81
EXHIBIT 3.31. Engulfing Patterns Where
Open and Close are the Same
Bearish Engulfing
Pattern
I
I
Bullish EngUlfing
Pattern
one confirmed a resistance area defined by a 50% retracement of the
selloff from A to B.
Because stocks often open relatively unchanged from the prior close
(as compared to the futures market), there should be more flexibility in
defining an engulfing pattern with stocks than with the more volatile
futures markets. Specifically, I still view it as an engulfing pattern if the
open of the second session of the candle pattern is the same as the close
of the first candle. This is shown in Exhibit 3.31.
Exhibit 3.32 shows an example of a bullish engulfing pattern in which
the open and the close were about the same. The importance of this
pattern was reinforced by the fact that it became support during the April
1993 pullback.
When looking at an engulfing pattern, you should consider the rela­
tive sizes of the real bodies that form the pattern. An ideal bearish en­
gulfing pattern has a very large real body enveloping a small white real
body. The diminutive size of the first small body of a bearish engulfing
pattern shows that the momentum of the prior rally is slackening. The
large black real body after this small candle then proves that the bears
have overwhelmed the bulls.
However, if there are two almost equal size candles that comprise the
engulfing pattern, the market may move into a lateral band, rather than
reverse (this concept may be useful for options traders who are looking
to sell volatility). I will use Exhibit 3.33 to illustrate this important con­
cept. In this deutsche mark chart, there was a bearish engulfing pattern
in July 1992 (Ion the chart). Note how the white and black candles were
about equal in height. The fact that they are about equal means that the
bears and the bulls are about equally strong. With no clear-cut victory of
the bears over the bulls, it should not have been unexpected to see prices
move sideways for a few weeks. On a breakout from this engulfing pat-
82 Candles
GAP-WEEKLY
tern's resistance band, the market stalled at another bearish engulfing
pattern at 2.
The bearish engulfing pattern at 2 was more significant with its small
white real body and massive black real body. It was thus more likely to
presage a price turn rather than a move into a lateral environment. This
engulfing pattern then became a resistance area.
Exhibit 3.34 displays a bearish engulfing pattern in early 1991. Note
how the white and black candles were about equal. As just discussed,
this could mean a period of consolidation; this is what unfolded as prices
moved into a lateral trading band. The highs of this bearish engulfing
pattern set up a resistance area that was confirmed by a long upper
shadow. Another bearish engulfing pattern appeared in October 1992.
Because the October bearish engulfing pattern had a very large black real
body and a small white one, it was more important than the prior en­
gulfing pattern. Even more portentous with the October engulfing pat­
tern was that it followed a doji. Specifically, if there is a bearish engulfing
pattern that follows a doji, it is viewed as being a particularly bearish
combination.
++
t3
+2
+1
+0
39
38
37
36
35
3+
33
32
31
30
29
28
27
-
-
-
-
-
-
j 92 JUN JUL flUG SEP OCT NOlJ DEC ! 93 FEB I1FlR APR MAY JUN JUL flUG
++
t3
'+2
t1
to f­
39 f­
38 f­
37 I­
36f­
35 f­
3+
33
32
31
30­
29,-
2Bf­
27 I-
MetaStock by EQUIS Int'l
EXHIBIT3.32. Engulfing Pattern and Stocks, Gap-Weekly
The Patterns 83
7: 59 OM I.lEEKLY BAR c 99;;1 C"'G INC.0= 6148' 7500
H= 6163
L- 6154
L= 6162B
6- +15
0­
H­
L=
c-
•
6/14193
Apr Jul Oct ·Jan
11993
Apr
EXHIBIT 3.33. Engulfing Patterns and Size of the Real Bodies, Deutsche Mark­
Weekly
14: 09 !'IKC5 I.lEEKLY BAR @) 1992 CQG INC.
0= 20967 '. a .H=- 21241 . Beansh 1 Long .
I~ ~S ~~~"g ~'l~ ~=ow . . •
t.ll~III~122DOO
f 1/201'2 • . . . I
t 0= 21349 . .
..H= 21381 20000
f L= 20638 .
I c= 20858: .Jan Apr Ju 1 Oct .Jan
• 11991 11992
EXHIBIT 3.34. Bearish Engulfing Pattern Following a Doji, Nikkei-Weekly
84 Candles
Last Engulfing Patterns
A bearish engulfing pattern is a large black candle that envelops a small
white real body after an uptrend. However, if a bearish engulfing pattern
appears duringa pricedecline,it has the potential of being a bullish bottom
reversal signal. This pattern is known as a last engulfingbottom(see Exhibit
3.35(A». The last engulfing pattern is viewed as a turning point for the
bulls if prices can close above the black candle's close.
A bullish engulfing pattern is a two-candlestick pattern in which, dur­
ing a downtrend, a large white candle wraps around a prior small black
real body. However, if, during a risingmarket, a large white candle engulfs
the previous day's black candle, it is a potentially bearish pattern, re­
ferred to as a last engulfing top (Exhibit 3.35(B». In candle theory, the
bearishness of this pattern is confirmed if the next day the market closes
under the prior white candle's close.
In Exhibit 3.35(B), the merged candle of the last engulfing top looks
bullish with its long upper shadow. However, remember that the last
engulfing top appears in an uptrend, so the merged candle line can be
compared to a potentially bearish hanging man line.
The Japanese colorfully compare the last engulfing pattern top to dou-
I
I I
I I
I
~-l~::::;] iI r \
(A)
r--1 ~1 J
---
I
f --- l
I
~---
I I
I
I I
(8)
EXHIBIT 3.35. Last Engulfing Bottom and Top
The Patterns 85
ble lovers' suicide. This is because you fall in love with the market (be­
cause of the last engulfing pattern's long white candle), but both you
and the market perish together. These words might be a little strong, but
they convey the cautionary approach traders should take after the emer­
gence of a last engulfing pattern.
In April 1992, in Exhibit 3.36, there was a bullish engulfing pattern
(note how, because this was a stock, I still viewed it as a bullish engulfing
pattern although the second session's open was the same as the prior
close). The rally from that pattern stalled at the last engulfing top. Note
how both of these patterns just discussed had a white candle enveloping
a black real body. But what was the difference? In the regular bullish
engulfing pattern in April 1992, the combination of the white enveloping
the black candles surfaced during a downtrend. In August 1992, the same
combination of candles appeared after an uptrend, thus becoming a last
engulfing pattern top. The fact that the next day's session closed under
the long white real body's close was confirmation of the last engulfing
top.
51
50
t9
t8
t7
t6
t5
-tt
t3
t2
t1
to
39
38
-
-
-
NOU DECAUG SEP OCTJUN JLl)92 FEB mR APR my
EASTMAN KODAK-WEEKLY
::1~
t8 r- I
t7 r- I Last EngUlfing
+t ~ -
: Q.~:
+2' ¢..~
ss ~"ffi"gcb~
MetaStock by EQUIS Int'l
EXHIBIT 3.36. Last Engulfing Top, Eastman Kodak-Weekly
86 Candles
• 18 115 122 11 18 115 122 129 15 112 119 126 13 110
Harami
EXHIBIT 3.37. Last Engulfing Bottom, June 1993 Bonds-Daily
The harami is comprised of a long real body and a small real body within
its range. The harami is the reverse of an engulfing line. Whereas in an
engulfing pattern there is a long candle engulfing the previous real body,
a harami is an unusually long real body followed by a very small real
body.
After a downtrend, the emergence of a harami shows, as expressed
in Japan, that "the decline is exhausting itself." A harami, after an ad-
In Exhibit 3.37, a bearish engulfing pattern arose at April's price peak.
Prices then descended, finding support at the bottom of the tall white
candle. This support was tested in late April with a black candle wrapping
around a white real body. This had the shape of a bearish engulfing
pattern, but it appeared during a downtrend. As such, it became a bullish
last engulfing bottom.
In Exhibit 3.38, at the September lows, there was a last engulfing
bottom. One of the more interesting aspects of this chart is that the
volume on the long black candle session was unusually high. This could
be viewed as a selling climax. This increased the chance that the last
engulfing pattern was a bottom reversal.
13:35 BDM3 DAILY BAR < 1993 CQG INC.
0= 11204· . Q Bearish
H= 11205 IL~ 11106 j . n Engulfing Pattern .
~.11~1~ ~ .,·······························..·····..····Jf!lUtrl,"~~tWI"200
11000
~ . . Pattern
~ . . ~ .
........ [t '00"
~~~tJnt l~. • •
~~ tt~g~ l~·······················:···························· : : 10600
C= 11114 .Mar .Apr .May
0= 17450
H= 17700 .. . . . . . . . ... . . . ~
L=- 17400 . . .L= 17675 .. :' . . . : . . . .:. . . .
&=.. +375.................................................................................................................................... .... 17500.+ . . .· ,. . . . . . . . ... . . .. .. .. . .. . ~. .· . . . . . . . . ... . . .. 1 . ... . . . . . . '1 ... . . .
·······:~·Ii·;·ii, ·,*t,:···:··~hF;;! ij!·"91·· :!!~l~: 110"
..............~ : tl~.'t~~'.hMJirI·D·····:·········:·········:···~·····~·1 k.l.l.:... issoo
: .: : : : ~ IV : : : ~ :~n~'Yo+c: :· .., V. I. .
9130/9~. . . . : . . . .:. "
~ t~igg .; : :--. ·~~e~~gU~ing 16000
c= 17675:' . . . . . . . .
QP DAILY VOL/OI
EXHIBIT 3.38. Last Engulfing Pattern and Volume, December 1993 Gas Oil
2000
1500
1000
500
The Patterns 87
c 1993 CQG INC.
1369 116 23 130
QPZ3 DAI Y BAR
19 126 12
TREN ( 0 of 2 )
1215•
13:06
10000 01 '"' . ..
8000 ~.~.~.:./~.... . -:-:.~.~ ~ :':':".:::.~ .
:::::rrr." ::: :;:;: :j: :j:;:"':;:::;:;:':(j:i:l':... "T;:::::::~:;:::i:::r liT:' l'lT ::::::
·.... :Jul ... '1·1· ·1· ·1,1, ·I·I·I·I··~· ·1'1"'1·1· ·1·1-1--·:·':SelO ... l ......
vance, shows that the market must have failed to maintain higher prices.
As shown in Exhibit 3.39(A), either candle of the harami can be white
or black; all combinations are called harami. However, after a downtrend,
a white-black (meaning the first candle is white and the second is black)
or a white-white harami is viewed more bullishly than a black-white or
a black-black harami. This is because a long white candle is by itself
viewed as bullish, so its appearance in a harami increases the chance that
the falling power of the market will come to an end.
The same rationale applies to a harami after an uptrend. As displayed
in Exhibit 3.39(B), a harami with a long black real body can be viewed as
more bearish than a harami in an uptrend that has a long white real
body. This is because a long black real body after a rally is construed as
bearish, so when it is the first part of the harami pattern, the degree of
pessimism is increased.
Other aspects that will increase the importance of a harami include
the following.
1. If the second real body is in the middle of the trading range of the
first real body. If, after a rally, the second real body of the harami is
near the upper end of the first real body, the odds increase that the
88 Candles
I
I
I
I
I
I
market will consolidate rather than reverse. I refer to such a harami
as a high-priceharami since the second session's price is in the upper
end of the prior range. In a downtrend, if there is a harami with the
second small real body near the bottom end of the trading range of
the prior long real body, then the outlook is more likely for a market
lull rather than for a price reversal. I call this type of harami pattern
a low-priceharami.
2. If the entire range, that is, the open, high, low, and close, are within
the prior real body, the chances increase for a price reversal.
3. The smaller the shadows and the shorter the real body of the second
candle, the better the signal. If the second candle is a doji instead of
a small real body, it increases the probability of a reversal. This com­
bination of a long candle followed by a doji in the first candle's real
body is called a harami cross.
Either Candle can
be White or Black
(A)
(B)
I
I
I
I
Either line can be
White or Black
I
I
EXHIBIT 3.39. Harami
The Patterns 89
Some Japanese literature refers to harami as transition periods in the
market. This means that if a harami in an uptrend is exceeded, it is
viewed as a bullish continuation signal. If the price closes under the low
of the harami session in a downtrend, then expect more selling pressure.
Exhibit 3.40 illustrates how a rally that started with November's
bullish engulfing pattern hesitated at a harami in December. This harami
had two aspects that increased its reliability: the second day's small real
body was almost in the middle of the first real body, and the entire range
of the second session (including the shadows) was within the real body
of the first session. It is interesting how the same scenario unfolded in
February. Again, a rally began from a bullish engulfing pattern, and then
again stalled with a classic harami. With the harami, as the Japanese
would say, "a crack has entered the market." A shooting star a few
sessions after the February harami was also a bearish upthrust in which
the market made a new high, but the bulls failed to hold these highs.
(Although the shooting star session had a real body within the prior long
59.5
59.0
~5
~O
57.5
57.0
56.5
56.0
55.5
55.0
5+.5
5+.0
53.5
53.0
52. 5
52. 0
51. 5
51. 0
50.5
50.0
+9. 5
-
-
-
-
~PRFEB
DOW CHEMICAL - DAILY
EngUlfing
Patterns
DEC
59.5 f-
59. 0 f- Harami ~I
~5 '~ I
~~ I J1I1
~! III~ ~!~ T ~
55 0 ~ I~ It5+: 5 ,~~
5+.0
53.5
53.0
52.5
52. 0
51. 5
51. 0 f­
50.5 ~
50. 0 ~
+9. 5 I-
MetaStock by EQUIS Int'l
EXHIBIT3.40. Harami, Dow Chemical-Daily
90 Candles
white candle, these two candles did not form a harami because the upper
shadow of the shooting star was too far outside the prior session's range.)
If there was any doubt about the serious trouble this market was in,
the falling gap at the arrow should have been the final proof. Note how
the harami sessions in December and February became a ceiling. The low
in this market was made via a hammer in April. Later that month, a
violently long white real body was immediately followed by a diminutive
real body. This formed a harami that precipitated a decline until the
emergence of another hammer.
In the chart shown by Exhibit 3.41, the selloff from a bearish engulfing
pattern found a foundation with May's harami. This second candle of
the harami hovered near the bottom of the prior long black real body.
As a result, there was more likelihood that prices would move sideways
near the lower end of the tall black candle's real body. Note that the long
lower shadows after this harami reflected healthy buying interest as prices
J 91 SEP OCT NOlJ DEC J 92 FEB I1AR APR MAY JUN JUL flUS SEP OCT
GENERAL RE - WEEKLY
90
85
80
95
100
105
-
-
Harami
x ~ •
~gw_~L_'Sh~-
B5
f:'1
1
~~~~~~g"nlJPattern
90 f- 191 [rio In t~u +9+r r
80-
100 f-
105 f-
MetaStock by EQUIS Int'l
EXHIBIT 3.41. Harami, General Re-Weekly
The Patterns 91
2:33 TREN ( 0 of 2 ) H X2 OA Y BAR €) 1992 CQS INC.
0= 6115H= 6135 . . .
L= 6070 . . "
uull····~ill&u··.··~ijl.Il~', ~!~Il II ~.. · ·1;;mmhuJ'..JLu...u
0= 6115' f. .
H= 6135
L= 6070
C= 6130 'Au'll . 'Sep 'Oct
• 127 13 110 117 124 131 17 114 121 128 15 112 119 126
EXHIBIT 3.42. Harami and the Size of the Second Real Body, November 1992
Heating Oil
got near $80. The pattern marked X was not a harami because the white
real body was not unusually long. For a harami, the first real body has
to be very long relative to the preceding bodies. Another harami appeared
in early August, but after an initial setback, prices exceeded the harami
so the trend resumed higher.
Exhibit 3.42 shows two examples of harami in which the open, high,
low, and close of the second real body are within the first real body. The
October harami pattern was more important because of the extremely
short real body. Its small size made it like a doji session. Thus, October's
harami could be viewed as a harami cross. The series of three long black
real bodies (labeled 1, 2, and 3) following October's harami underscored
the inherent weakness of the market.
In Exhibit 3.43, in February 1992, we see how a support area (which
included a hammer) formed within a $19.00-$19.50 area. Based on the
axiom that old support becomes resistance (the change of polarity prin­
ciple), we would expect $19.00-$19.50 to become resistance. That is what
developed as this resistance was first confirmed by a shooting star. From
there, the market descended until the piercing pattern occurred. Another
assault at the $19.00-$19.50 resistance area materialized in May. At that
time, a harami pattern was followed by a dark cloud cover. Another failed
6600
6400
6200
6000
92 Candles
AST-DAILY
attack at the resistance in late May occurred via a long upper shadow
candle (this candle was not a shooting star because it did not appear after
a rally).
As discussed before, the ideal harami pattern has the second session's
real body in the middle part of the first candle. However, if during an
uptrend the second candle hovers near the top of the prior candle (i.e.,
a high-price harami), the chances increase for a consolidation rather than
a price reversal. In Exhibit 3.44, we see how several high-price harami
(marked 1 through 3) developed from early June through late July. After
each of these, the market consolidated for at least a week before moving
out of the trading range. This chart brings out another use of a high-price
harami (or a low-price harami in a downtrend)-option traders can con­
sider selling volatility. This is because after a high-price harami in an
uptrend or a low-price harami in a downtrend, a trader could expect that
the market posture may temporarily settle into a lateral band from a
previously strong trend. This could mean a decline in volatility.
22.0
21. 5
21. 0
20. 5
20.0
19.5
19.0
1B.5
1B. 0
17.5
17.0
16.5
16.0
15.5
15.0
It.5
1t. 0
-
-
-
11 1B 26 J DB 15
j
Harami
/ Dark Cloud Cover
/,r{
~ ~-
Pattern 1
A 06 13 20 27 n
Shooting
/Star
( Resistance Zone
n 09 16 2310 lB 2t
~~ 11~
Support Zone
19.0 \
1B.5
1B. 0 f- Hammer
17.5 f­
17. 0 f­
16.5f­
16.0f-
15.5
15.0
1t. 5
1to 0
...........-..---.-----.--.....---....-..---.-- ............--.---,..-..---.-----.-..----.--..-......---.--.----r-'--'
J 92
MetaStock by EQUIS Int'l
EXHIBIT 3.43. Harami Confirming a Resistance Zone, AST -Daily
The Patterns 93
THE WINDOW
19 126 1212
'Jul
14 121 128 ~
'Ju1
17 124 131 rr• 13 10
[4:58 B[]lJ3 [JAi _Y BAR In L~~3 ::1018 IN!.:
0- 11529···········.. 12000
H- 11530
L- 11:513
L- 11514"
.- -10
3 4
· . . f'..........: :.·..··· ································:····..·..·····~tr.········· ..·t;·6·.····11600
· . . l~tV" '1 .· . . I 90 " .· . . . .. . . . ott+~ ·110' . ,~t(l .
• • 2 Q' T I I .
......•.•. : 1 : QI··-6·rO.~.~.~ : : 11200
· . _~,t+. .
:~I'W'. . t qt9'OI~T' .QU I~!tn' ~I~ t. : :
..........: .T...,.V : : : 10800
EXHIBIT 3.44. Harami with Second Candle Near Top of Prior Candle, September
1993 Bonds
The window, also known as disjointed candles, is one of the more pow­
erful candlestick patterns. As shown in Exhibit 3.45(A) and (B), a window
is the same as a gap in the West. That is, for a rising window, the top
of yesterday's upper shadow should be under the low of the today's
lower shadow. A falling window means that the low of yesterday's ses­
sion (i.e., the bottom of the lower shadow) is above the top of today's
upper shadow. Windows are a good visual clue because they clearly
display that the action and market sentiment is so one-sided.
In a talk I gave before a group of traders, I mentioned how, based on
my experiences, the window was a candle tool that I have found to work
well. After I mentioned this, a trader in the audience told me that he
used to work at a Japanese bank. After my explanation of the importance
of windows, he said that he then understood why the Japanese traders
at the bank would routinely go to the charts looking for gaps-sometimes
even going back years to find one. This comment reinforced what I have
found to be true about the windows-it is a candle technique not to be
ignored.
94 Candles
Upper shadow of (1)
does not touch lower
shadow of (2)
I I II I
,.1, (2) I~ I Window acts
~---------~------- --:;::'--as support
---------~--------1 -/ If(1)
Bottom of I Close above bottom
window of window keeps
uptrend intact
(A) Rising Window
Close under top
of window keeps
=£4:~p~;, ~=)~1~~"~~~~::~~;~~
I I
(B) Falling Window
EXHIBIT 3.45. Rising and Falling Windows
Windows are continuation patterns in which the market resumes the
trend taken before the continuation pattern emerged. Thus, after a rising
window, which is a bullish continuation pattern, the prior uptrend should
continue. A falling window has bearish implications since it means the
prior trend, in that case down, should resume.
There is a saying used in Japan about windows, "The reaction will
go until the window." In other words, the window should be the limit
on a reaction. Thus, for a rising window, reactions (i.e., selloffs) should
stop within the window. For a falling window, rebounds (i.e., rallies)
should stop within the window.
When using windows as support and resistance, it should be noted
that the price may fall below the bottom of a rising window or above the
top of a falling window temporarily before prices move back in the di­
rection of the window. This is illustrated in Exhibit 3.45(A) and (B).
A general rule that I have found useful based on my experience is
that if the price closes through the window, I then view the prior trend
as being voided. For example, if there is a rising window between $83
and $85 and then the market closes under the bottom of the window
(i.e., under $83), the uptrend can be considered as over. Conversely, if
there is a falling window between $62 and $60, once the bulls close the
EXHIBIT 3.46. Intra-Session Break of a Window, December 1993 S&P
The Patterns 95
---------------_.'""".."'_.""..",, ..,
.Sep
116 123 130 16
.Aug
112 119 126 12 19
..................................................................................................................................................... 44000
9/10193
0= 45865
H= 46320
L= 45860
C= 46280 .Jul
• 17 114 121 128 15
market above the top of this window (at $62), then the bulls have broken
the back of the bear market.
Based on the discussion above, an intra-session move under a rising
window (or above a falling window) is not proof of a break. The conse­
quence of this is that you should wait for the market to close under the
bottom of a rising window (or above the top of a falling window) to
confirm that the uptrend is over (or that the downtrend has been voided).
On a weekly chart, you should wait for a weekly (that is, a Friday) close
under the bottom of the window to say that a window's support had
been broken. The risk in waiting for a close to confirm the break of a
window is that, by the time this happens, the market may be sharply
higher or lower than you may have wanted to risk.
In this section, I will discuss:
7:54 SPZ3 DAILY BAR c 1993 COG IHC.
0=
H=
L=L= Bearish 47000
IJ.= Engulfing
Pattern
~ ~ .~.
UUUUU;f~~~~Qt9~~~19~~lqn~ 4<000
. . . .:. . . .: .~.. : /1
45000
. : . 0 ": :
. . .
1. waiting for a closing price to confirm the break of a window's support
or resistance area;
2. how volume can influence the importance of a window;
3. using windows to confirm a trend reversal;
4. how windows can provide a quick clue to the market's health;
5. waiting for three sessions for confirmation of a window;
96 Candles
59
58
57
56
55
54
53
52
51
50
49
48
47
46
45
44
43
42
41
40
39
231609N26191228 0 0521
APPLE - DAILY
Exhibit 3.46 shows that a selloff from a bearish engulfing pattern held
August's rising window as support. The long lower shadow of candle 1
and the tall white real body of candle 2 echoed the importance of this
support area. Candle 1 pulled under the window on an intra-day basis,
but by the close, the bulls had managed to push prices above the bottom
of the window. This left the uptrend intact.
Exhibit 3.47 shows that there was a rally that started with the October
5 hammer. The force behind the bulls' move was echoed later that month
by the rising window and its accompanying high volume (see the arrow).
When a window opens via a tall white real body, it has the nickname of
a runningwindow (based on the fact that the market is "running" in the
direction of the window). The rally from this window hesitated via a doji
6. three windows and confirmation of a trend reversal;
7. two black gapping candles;
8. gapping doji.
192 08 14
EXHIBIT 3.47. Windows and Volume, Apple-Daily
L ,...J
r
The Patterns 97
after the tall white candle. The fact that the pullback from this doji held
support at 50% of the white body (see the dashed line) showed the power
of the bulls to support the market. Note how, as the market ascended,
the midpoint of the tall white candles became support.
Exhibit 3.48 illustrates how June's dark cloud cover short-circuited the
prior rally. The sell-off from this pattern found a floor at April's window.
Other aspects of this chart are interesting. The low of June's price decline
was a harami. This harami appeared within the support band, as pre­
dicted by the window. This same combination of a harami within the
window also emerged in May. Notice how the June rebound from the
window stalled at the resistance area set up by the dark cloud cover.
A shooting star is potentially bearish, but what if the shooting star
session also forms a rising window-which is bullish? In Exhibit 3.49, we
see that such a scenario unfolded as in mid-January. After the shooting
star line appeared, I was asked by a client whether this was a sell signal
(the client knew that a shooting star was normally a bearish signal). I
pointed out that while this was indeed a bearish shooting star, there was
another aspect that was perhaps even more important-the rising win­
dow. I suggested to this client that if he wanted to sell short, he should
wait for the market to close under the bottom of the window to confirm
that the uptrend was over. Since the bears could not pull prices under
7:49 JY 13 []A V BAH I(!; I)')';' i,;W\:l 1M
0- 9076
H- 9135 Dark
C: ~?~.... . . . . . . .. . ~Cloud . .. .
~u~!"!._ ..:.uu··:~UV~ll:U:...
. . . . . . . Q .. . . . t· .. .
: : Q: : tol: : 1 : ~ : : :: : :: ~
. . ~ "'~ . 1" ~ . . .. .
Wind~w~' . t· ~·9····· .
,0
1
+,l . ....:...,. . .. . ..-m,... .
7 12/93 · .. ·· .. · .. · ·· .. ··· .. ········· .. ···· .. ··· .. ······ .. ·· ..
0- 9076
H- 9135
L- 9066
c- 9122 ·Ma.., ..Jun ·Jul
• 112 119 126 13 110 117 124 131 17 114 121 128 ~ 12
EXHIBIT 3.48. Window as Support, September 1993 Japanese Yen
9500
9250
9000
8750
98 Candles
the window, a short sale was unwarranted. After the next session's rally,
the client, who did not go short, ordered ten copies of my first book to
give to his friends!
Exhibit 3.49 demonstrates a critical concept sometimes forgotten, even
by practitioners of the candle charts. Namely, that an individual candle
pattern should be viewed in the context of the surrounding technical
picture. In this example, a shooting star viewed in isolation (that is, by
not looking at the window preceding it) could have caused a poorly
positioned trade.
When I show Exhibit 3.50 at my seminar, I title it, "Saved by the
Light of the Candles!." This is because the chart is an example of how
candles can help avoid a bad trade. In mid-March, the market closed
above a major resistance line that went back to December 1991 (only the
last part of this resistance line is shown on the chart). This breakout action
could have been viewed as potentially bullish. However, there was still
a lack of confirmation based on the candles. Specifically, there was an
open window in early March that was yet unclosed. Based on candle
principles, until the market closes above the top of the window (in this
case at $1088), the trend was still down. Observe that, in spite of the
breakout from the resistance line, the bulls could not push the market
high enough to close above the top of the window. So although a resis-
• 121 128 14 111 118 125 12 19 116 123 130 16 113 120
EXHIBIT 3.49. Shooting Star and a Rising Window, March 1992 Silver
4000
J::...au
N
~
3800 ..
.<:
'"...
~u
~
4200
4400
e 1992 CQG INC.SIH2 DAILY BAR
• • • jII Il ~ . .: ~ s~ooting' ~? ~
Hlt.Uf~'~rHij+iHHHS'~~~
1 .tl+1 It Ir!Q II ji II : ~. ~'Ri~ing• tIQ W +,+1 , • Q~ W,ndow
. 1/23192············· .. ···· ··· ··· ·· .
0= 4270
H= 4320
L= 4210
C= 4225 ·Nov ·Dec ·Jan
0= 4270
H.. 4320
L= 4210
L= 4225v
a= -68
13:33
900
1000
11r )0
1200
12:58 TREH ( 0 of 2 ) C K2 OAl Y BAR ~ 1992 C G HC
0= 882Hl" 882L= 876 .I,
L= 878"'~Ya= -ftl
........:.~.r·····l··········· : : .
h,!;o • .•
................................11OftI16~J~~···· ············6~~'~~":" ..
: Falling /1 11 ~ ~ :. Window . n1. 0 '( .•. .
: : Y'U :
....................: : .1. : .
: : TO'
• • .~O\ Olltl
0= 4/~:~9.~ : : : f ~nl'~"'H"" ..
H= 882 . . . J.
L= 876 r,
C= 878
• 27 27'--_......
The Patterns 99
EXHIBIT 3.50. Window as Extra Confirmation, May 1992 Cocoa
tance line was pierced, those who knew about the candles were kept
from going prematurely long.
The window can be used as a potent confirmatory mechanism. If ther e
is a reversal signal followed by a window in the same direction, trade rs
should be more confident of a price reversal. Exhibit 3.51 is an exarmple
of this aspect. There was a bearish engulfing pattern in May. Prices de­
scended slightly, and then moved up to reach new highs in early July.
As this time, another bearish engulfing pattern appeared. However, un­
like May's bearish engulfing pattern, July's was followed by a falling
window. This window served to reinforce that a top had been 'put in
place.
Exhibit 3.52 shows how candles can help give a quick underst.anding
of the market's health (or illness). In this case, there was a stock f(hat one
of my friends had bought. Some very bullish news came out, and im­
mediately after this news, the stock soared to a new high (see th-e arrow).
There were a few ominous signs that appeared in spite of this bullish
news. First was the fact that the day the market moved to a )new high,
it finished the session by closing under the prior day's close. This formed
a dark cloud cover.
The other problem was more significant. As I explained to my friend,
a market that fails to hold new highs on supposedly bullisih news is a
___________ - __-----.""m-~'~-'
100 Candles
r IBM-WEEKLY :J
Bearish ~
100 Engulfing 100
Patterns 0.91,(~~~
95
It! ~ 00 +01
95
90
++I!~, 010 +t °'6_°'
90
85
I.~ •
85
80
ItI
80
7'5 75
70 70
T,+"o"~~.
65
60 60
~L
55
50 ~, 50
L
}92 F1~8 MFlR FlPR MFlY JUN JUL FlUG SEP OCT NOU DEC ...J
EXHIBIT 3.51. Windows as Confirmation, IBM-Weekly
dar.igerous market to be long. A stock's price is composed of the total of
all hnformation.rwhether the information is known by the general public
or b) T a select few. Many shares of this stock were held by relatively few
peopi'e. The failure to hold the new highs probably meant that they knew
somet.hing the general public did not. They may have taken the oppor­
tunity to sell into the rally. Of course, there was always a chance for
recovery to the new highs. But, after I saw the falling window, I men­
tioned to my friend that until the market closed above the top of the
window, the market was in a downtrend. This window became resistance
as shown by the dual shooting stars. Notice that in August, another
falling window opened.
Some }apanese traders believe that if a window is not filled within
three sessi ons, it is confirmation that the market should move in the
direction of the window. That is, if there is a falling window that is not
filled within. three sessions, the market action is viewed as confirming
that prices s.hould move lower. In one of the books I had translated, it
said that if a window is not filled within three sessions, then there is
EXHIBIT 3.52. Windows as a Mechanism for Quickly Analyzing the Market,
Daxro-Daily
power to go thirteen more sessions in the direction of the gap. I do not
agree with the preciseness of the last part of that statement, but this
technique of waiting three sessions for confirmation may provide a
method to confirm a window's support or resistance.
In Exhibit 3.53, there was a falling window that opened in early March.
Based on the above discussion, a method to trade with this window could
be to wait three sessions and see if within that time the market can close
above the top of the window. If the bulls cannot push prices (on a close)
above the top of the window, candle theory states that this should in­
crease the chance that the downtrend will continue. After all, the bulls
had three sessions to move prices through the window and failed to do
so. In this example, we see how the falling window acted as resistance
as the bulls tried in the third session to unsuccessfully push prices above
the window. Attempts in May at this window's resistance level at 62<:
stalled via a dark cloud cover and then a long upper shadow candle (at
the arrow) a few sessions later.
17.0
16.5
16.0
15.5
15.0
14.5
14.0
13.5
13.0
12.5
12.0
11.5
11.0
10.5
10.0
9.5
9.0
8.5
8.0
7.5
7.0
6.5
6.0
5.5
5.0
4.5
4.0
The Patterns 101
DAXRO- DAILY
-
13 20 27 Fl 10 17 24 S 08 14 21 28 0J)92 15 22
17.0
16.5
16.0
15.5
15.0
14.5
14.0
13.5
13.0
12.5
12.0
11.5
11.0
10.5
10.0
9.5
9.0
8.5
8.0
7.5
7.0
6.5
6.0
5.5
5.0
4.5
4.0
c
102 Candles
14:32 URM3 DAILY BAR ( 1993 CQG INC.
0= 6035 '.
H= 6045················.······ ·· .
L.= 5925
L= 5945A
6= -118
6400
\ . Dark
'. ~ Falling'. Cloud Cover
. ~~. .
jlJ~HH
6200
6000
5800
5/13/93
0= 6035
H= 6045
L= 5925
C= 5945 :Mar
• 18 115 122 11 18 115 122 129 15 ~2 ~9 ~6 ~ 110
EXHIBIT 3.53. Windows and Waiting Three Sessions, June 1993 Unleaded Gas
I would be careful about putting too much emphasis on three sessions.
The Japanese place much importance on the number three in their cul­
ture, and this has spilled into their technical analysis. Thus, look closely
at what happens when you get a window in your market. You may find
that if the window is not filled in within two, four, or even five sessions,
rather than the more traditional three sessions, it could be proof of con­
tinuation of the trend predicted by the window.
Three Windows
As discussed above, the Japanese emphasize the number three. In this
context, the Japanese view a market that has had three rising or falling
windows in a row as a market that has reached maturity. The market in
such a scenario is viewed as being overextended and correction is likely.
Three windows are shown in Exhibit 3.54.
Besides the windows, Exhibit 3.55 is of interest because it shows ex­
amples of many candle patterns. After a series of bottoming patterns in
January that included a high-wave candle and the morning star, the mar­
ket gave final bullish confirmation with a rising window. The market
ascended strongly from there until a harami pattern was formed. The
The Patterns 103
1800
1~00
2000
2100
12211518
3 Rising Windows
III____1 _
Window 1 - ----I----~ Close below
I Top Window
___L__
Window2-
--r---
Window 3 - =f-==
I
Morning
Star
3 Falling Windows
IJ _
Window1-
--r---
_~1 _
Window2-
---liL-- Q Close above
. __ ~Bottom
Window 3 - --l--l -- Window
II
3122/~3
0= 2010
H= 2013
L= 1~45· .. · .. ·· .. · .. ·.... ·.... · ..········· .. ·· .. ··· .. ·· .. ·.... ········· .. ·· .. ····· .. · .. ·.... ·· .. ···· .. ·· .. · ..···· .... ········· .. ··· .. ·· ........
C= 1~46 ·Jan ·Feb ·Mar
• 121 128 14 111 118 125 1 18 115 122 11
14: 07 CLJ3 DAILY BAR ( 1~~3 CQG IHC.
0= 2010
H= 2013 DarkL= 1~45
L= 1~46v . Cloud
6= -62 Cover
................................~ •• ~ ..Q0~H~7~~H
: (I) ~ ~,~
. .: \Jr· .111 1+ '\ I .
~~h_LJj! fi~~ :'~:~W;"dOWHH
EXHIBIT 3.54. Three Windows
correction from this harami stopped in mid-February with a successful
test of January's window. From the February lows until the dark cloud
cover in early March, there were three rising windows (numbered 1, 2,
and 3). The market then broke lower via a falling window. Note how
that falling window became resistance over the next few days.
As shown in the example above, if there is a bearish candle signal
after three windows, one should offset long positions. However, the
EXHIBIT 3.55. A Dark Cloud Cover After Three Windows, June 1993 Crude Oil
104 Candles
more aggressive may be willing to, as the Japanese say, "take a leap of
faith" and they can go short without a bearish candle clue of a turn.
It is my opinion, based on experience, that even if there are three
windows in the same direction, I would not trade against the direction
of these windows until I see more proof of a trend reversal. To me, this
would require that the market moves through the last window on a close
(as shown in Exhibit 3.54). Based on this, bearish confirmation in Exhibit
3.55 came with the candle at x (in March), which closed under rising
window 3.
Exhibit 3.56 highlights how important it can be to wait for the top
window to be filled in before going short after three rising windows. This
gold chart shows a rising window in April that is labeled "window 2."
This is because prior to this date, and not shown here, there was another
rising window. This made April's window the second rising window.
Another window followed this, forming the third rising window. A few
sessions after window 3, there was a dark cloud cover that was completed
on May 3. This pattern signaled a change in the trend as the market went
from vertical to sideways. However, although the trend did change, there
was not yet confirmation that prices would descend because the bears
had yet to close the market under the top window (window 3). This
3400
3600
3800
4000
126119
c 1993 CQG INC.
11215
·Jul
128121114
·Jun
131 17
GCZ3 DAILY BAR
124117110• 126 13
14:08
EXHIBIT 3.56. Waiting for Confirmation of a Trend Reversal After Three Rising
Windows, December 1993 Gold-Daily
0= 3950H= 3988L..,. 3945L= 3975..A= +32
.UUEP~u!~ri1ti'~r~;j+to'O
..un~ln+L,··,JtljU10JQ.+ .
: ~~,~ L '! ~T??~tn :Dark Cloud Y ~.
. Cover 1 --:- Window 4 . : . ,y . .:G , ~ : i,. Hammer :
Qi~ffr"l-tn~L UU. U
_Window3 . .
'TOi.~indow~
7/26/930= 3950 .
H= 3988L= 3945C= 3975 'May
The Patterns 105
Two Black Gapping Candles
1. a bearish engulfing pattern;
2. a harami pattern;
3. an evening star;
4. a bearish engulfing pattern;
5. a bearish engulfing pattern;
6. long upper shadows, with the black candle following the white candle,
forming a dark cloud cover, and for those knowledgeable about the
EXHIBIT 3.57. Two Black Gapping Candles
I Falling
_J / Window
-----,-----
,
window stayed open, and the market then continued on its upward
course. Interestingly, the same scenario as just discussed unfolded as
another dark cloud cover (dark cloud cover 2) formed after window 4.
After dark cloud cover 2, prices again went from an uptrend into a lateral
band. But the widow (number 4) remained unfilled on a close as it was
successfully defended by the bulls via a hammer. Note how the window
was filled on an intra-day basis, but prices did not close under the bottom
of window 4. This meant that the major uptrend was still in effect. Con­
sequently, I usually recommend our clients to use three or more rising
(or falling windows) at a time to offset or protect existing positions, but
not to go countertrend until the last window is filled in on a close.
While a falling window is bearish, it is even more portentous if the two
candles immediately following the window have black real bodies. Such
a combination is called two black gapping candles (Exhibit 3.57). The dual
black candles reinforce the fact that the trend has turned from up to
down. This pattern is a sign, as the Japanese express it, of the "rout of
the bulls."
The chart of Delta in Exhibit 3.58 gave a plethora of signals that it was
experiencing trouble as it got in the $50 to $60 area. The topping signals
included:
106 Candles
r DELTA- DAILEY :J
60.0 60.0
59.5 59.5
59.0 59.0
58.5 58.5
58.0 58.0
57.5 57.5
57.0 57.0
56.5 56.5
56.0
~ IIID I t!1
56.0
55.5 55.5
55.0 55.0
54.5 54.5
54.0 54.0
53.5
~, ~ 1 llll~
53.5
53.0 53.0
52.5
I ~ ,
52.5
52.0 52.0
51.5 51.5
51.0
Ill~~l!
51.0
50.5 50.5
50.0
ir
50.0
49.5 49.5
49.0 49.0
48.5 48.5
48.0 48.0
47.5 47.5
47.0 47.0
46.5 46.5
L
'92 24 S 08 14 21 28 0 12 19 26 N 09 16 23 o 07 14 21 .-J
EXHIBIT 3.58. Two Gapping Black Candles Confirm Resistance, Delta-Daily
candle patterns, the three black candles following the white candle,
forming a three-crow pattern.
The coup de grace came with two black gapping candles in mid-Novem­
ber.
In Exhibit 3.59, December's harami followed by a long black real body
was an important warning. Also note how those three candles (that is,
the two candles of the harami and the next candle) all had long upper
shadows. After this group of bearish signals, there was a falling window
with two black candles. This completed the two black gapping candles.
Gapping Doji
Exhibit 3.60 shows adPji session that gaps lower during a decline. It is
said this is a time where selling meets more selling and thus is a bearish
The Patterns 107
JOHNSON &JOHNSON - DAILY
55. 5 55. 5
55. 0 Harami 55.0
54. 5
~L/~"-
54. 5
54. 0 54.0
53.5 53. 5
53. 0 53.0
52. 5 ~ , T~BI.,k 52. 5
52. 0
, ~t.~ ¥~~
52. 0
51. 5 51. 5
51. 0
~~ ~ ~~ +~~ "ttt~ flto ~~
51. 0
50. 5 50.5
50.0 50.0
49. 5
~!' tV ,tt t ,
49. 5
49. 0 49. 0
48. 5 48.5
48. 0 48.0
47. 5 47. 5
47. 0 47. 0
46.5 46. 5
46.0 46. 0
45. 5 45. 5
45. 0 45.0
J 92 NOU DEC J 93
MetaStock by EQUIS Int'l
EXHIBIT 3.59. Two Black Gapping Candles, Johnson and Johnson-Daily
signal. I would recommend waiting for confirmation for this pattern on
the session after the doji. The reason for waiting is that if the session
after the doji is a long white candle that trades higher, it would turn out
to be bullish morning star pattern.
In my studies, I have seen reference to this gapping doji only in a
falling market, not to a gapping doji in a rising market. However, I see
no reason not to view such a pattern as being bullish since it has the
I
_Window
EXHIBIT 3.60. Gapping Doji
108 Candles
requisite rising window. In such a scenario, I would also prefer to wait
for a higher session on the day following the doji. This is because the
doji could be a sign of a tired market and if a white candle followed this
doji it would show that the market would then be refreshed.
As discussed in the section on doji, a doji after an uptrend or a tall
white candle could be potentially bearish. However, I would view the
fact that if a doji gaps higher, some of the potentially bearish implications
of the doji are negated because the rising window shows the underlying
strength of the market.
As shown in Exhibit 3.61, the doji at session 1 did not gap lower (that
is, the high of doji session 1 was above the low of the prior session).
Because of this, doji 1 is not a classic gapping doji, although the market
came so close to opening a falling window with doji 1 that I still viewed
it as a gapping doji. Interestingly, the next session (at doji 2) the market
did form a gapping doji. A sign of further weakness arose when the
hammer and bullish engulfing pattern at 3 failed to hold as support when
prices closed under the support area set up by the bullish engulfing
pattern. At 4 the market gave an important bearish signal via the falling
window.
The gapping doji is a rare pattern, but in Exhibit 3.62 there is a falling
candle line with a small real body. While not a doji session, it could be
1~: 13 PNI-l4 I'ltII Y BAR f2\ 1994 r:JJR [HI:
0- 12468
Ii- 1~24. . . . . . ., .,.
L- 12462 ft I +t
~ 1~~.... . . . ~~T~ '9U• t~~.. .. . . . ..
..Oh. .I+t~· 01+106' _
···································v!;J······························································l········ 13000
. ~~~o.o. . . . .. t···· .
:: :i: : : : : : : 1-::;1~: ..
...... :.~.~.~.~.~ : : : : : : : ~.: 3 4 ~·~·t·9t··:·:·········· 12750
'" . . . . . . . .. . . ., ij'
. ..!I............................................................................................................................................In..·12:500
31 4/94
0- 12468
~ Im~ 12250
c- 12:522-e .Jan ..Feb Mar
• 129 16 113 /20 /27 3 10117 124 131 17 i14 121 128
EXHIBIT 3.61. Gapping Doji, March 1994 Notionnel Bond
The Patterns 109
IBM-DAILY
56 56
55
54
53
52
51
50
49
48
47
46
45
44
43
42
41
NOVOCTSEP
MetaStock by EQUIS Int'l
AUG
Doji
'93 JUL
55 ~
i! ~~I~
:: 1J~~1I ~~l~
48 I
47
46
45
44
43
:~ (1) I 'f-(.) ~ y
EXHIBIT 3.62. Gapping Doji, IBM-Daily
As shown in Exhibit 3.63, the evening star is a three-candlestick pattern.
The criteria for this pattern include an uptrending market in which a long
The Evening Star
THREE OR MORE CANDLE LINES
viewed as similar to a gapping doji in that the small real body is almost
a doji and it gapped under the prior lows. (Even if a trader did not view
this as a gapping doji, it could also be viewed as two black gapping
candles.) This chart has some interesting candle signals that illustrate
how IBM was basing out near $40. These include the long lower shadow
at candle 1 and a tall white real body at candle 2. A shooting star in late
August created problems on the rally from candle 2. The market broke
under the lows of the mid-September hammer, but it is interesting how
easily we can see the selling pressure evaporating during this sell off (at
X) by a series of gradually shrinking black real bodies. The long white
candle at Y showed that the bulls had taken control.
110 Candles
Can be white or black.
If this is a
?oji, the p.~ttern:.
IS an evefllng
doji star.
-------
(2)
[
1(3)
(1) J
-------------------
I
I
EXHIBIT 3.63. The Evening Star
white candle (candle 1 in the Exhibit) is followed by a small real body
(candle 2). The small real body of the second candle line can be black or
white and should not touch the real body of candle 1. The third candle
of this pattern is a black real body that does not usually touch real body
2, and then closes well into the white candle line that make up the first
candle of this pattern. If the second candle of the evening star is a doji
instead of a small real body, then the pattern is an evening doji star.
In the Introduction to this book, I referred to the book written in the
mid-1700s entitled, The FountainofGold- The ThreeMonkeyRecordofMoney.
In that book, reference is made to Yin and Yang markets. Yang is another
term for bullish (for example, a white candle is sometimes referred to as
a yang line). A Yin move is a downturn. For instance, a black candle line
can be called a yin line. The Fountain of Gold has a section that reads,
"When movement reaches an extreme, there is stillness. This stillness
gives rise to Yin." This is a verbal description of the evening star. To
wit!
1. "When yang movement reaches an extreme" -the appearance of the
long white candle of the evening star pattern
2. "There is stillness" -describes the small real body. The small real
body reflects a market at a transition phase in which the trend goes
from up to a period of "stillness."
3. "This stillness gives rise to Yin" -aptly describes how the Yin (the
black candle) follows the stillness of the second candle line.
The Patterns 111
It is important to wait for the third line to get the bearish confirmation
of this pattern. This is because, after the second candle line, all we known
about the market is that it went from an uptrend to period in which the
bulls and bears were in a stalemate as gauged by the small real body of
this second candle. It is only after the long black candle moves into the
first session's white body that we get the proof that the bears have taken
control of the market.
Exhibit 3.64 is an example of how an evening star confirmed a resis­
tance area set up by a bearish engulfing pattern. Because this bearish
engulfing pattern and evening star arose near the same area, both pat­
terns formed a potential double top near $45. In Western technicals, a
double top is confirmed by a move under the low between the two price
peaks that make up the double top. In this chart, this low was made in
February at $40!. A double top gives a measure derived on the range
from the highs to the low of the pattern. In this case, there was about a
$5 range that is subtracted from the February low of $40!. This gave a
target to about $35!. Thus, for those wanting to buy on price dips, a
+5.5
+5.0
H.5
H.O
t3.5
+3.0
t2. 5
t2.0
t1. 5
t1. 0
to. 5
to. 0
39.5
39.0
38.5
38.0
37.5
37.0
36.5
36.0
35.5
35.0
3t.5-
-
-
-
-
~UGJULJUNFEB! 92 DEC
HEINZ - WEEKLY
r:I\,Bearish CD\~ Jj Engulfing I Evening
~ Pattern t Star
t1.0 ~ ilL,- Itt05 L_ --to: 0 n - Dou~le Top
39. 5 U • Co"",mOO
~:
5
" 1 '.~t'l35.5 I-
35.0 I­
3t.5 I-
t5.5 I­
t5.0 I­
H.5 I­
H.O I­
+3.5
+3.0
MetaStock by EQUIS Int'l
EXHIBIT 3.64. Evening Star Confirms Resistance, Heinz-Weekly
112 Candles
PFIZER - WEEKLY
55
70
65
60
BO
75
-
-
APRFEB,93DECNoUOCTSEP
measured move target towards $35! should be the area. We can see from
this example how smoothly candle charts can be merged with classic
Western charting methods (e.g., the double top).
In Exhibit 3.65, I illustrate that the evening star can become resistance.
As shown on this chart, November's evening star stopped the December
rally. I use the highest point of the three candles, that form the evening
star-that is, the top of the highest upper shadows, as my resistance. If
you can withstand the risk, I would recommend using a close (rather
than an intra-session move) above the evening star's high as a buy stop.
In this case, it would require a weekly (that is, a Friday close) above the
dashed line to confirm a breakout from the evening star's resistance area.
As previously discussed, there should be more flexibility in using
candles in the stock market than in some of the other markets, such as
futures. As shown in Exhibit 3.63, the classic evening star's three real
bodies should not be touching. However, because in the stock market
the open price is usually near the prior session's close, the real bodies
may touch. In Exhibit 3.66, we see how the opening of the middle candle
70 f-
55
60
MetaStock by EQUIS Int'l
EXHIBIT 3.65. Evening Star as Resistance, Pfizer-Weekly
The Patterns 113
WASTE MGMT - DAILY
36.0 W.""0'''''Star
36.0
35:5
~~ ,~f'~
35.5
35.0 35.0
3+. 5 3+. 5
~ ,
3+. 0 34.0
33.5
, ~t ~ t~ 'I
33. 5
33.0 33.0
32.5 32.5
32.0 32.0
31. 5
ij) ~1~~t, ·9
31. 5
31. 0 31. 0
30.5 30.5
30.0 30.0
29.5 29.5
'93 26 M 10 17 24 J 07 14 21 28 J 12 19 26 ~
MetaStock by EQUIS Int'l
EXHIBIT 3.66. Evening Star and Flexibility, Waste Management-Daily
of the pattern was about the same price as the prior session's close. While
some flexibility may be allowed with stocks in regard to the relation of
the real bodies, it should be remembered that the more ideal the pattern,
the greater the likelihood of a top.
The evening star from late August illustrated in Exhibit 3.67 is differ­
ent from the more traditional evening star in that the third real body of
this one is a small black real body rather than a long black one. However,
I viewed this as an evening star variation with all the bearish implications
of the more traditional evening star for a few reasons, which I will now
address:
1. The third candle of this evening star, although not a tall black candle,
nonetheless reflected the potency of the bears by the fact that they
were able to drag prices well into the white real body of this pattern.
2. This evening star variation verified a resistance area. In mid-August,
there was a group of bearish candle signals that included a shooting
114 Candles
2300
EXHIBIT 3.68. The Collapsing Doji Star
2100
2200
+~window
,
~ ~WI"dow
star, then three tall black real bodies after this shooting star, and then
a long upper shadow of the candle of August 24. Note how all these
bearish candles emerged near $2.50 This is the level where the vari­
ation of the evening star appeared.
Exhibit 3.68 shows a collapsing doji star. At a high-price level, the
market moves higher. After this, the market gaps lower via a falling doji.
This is a point where selling overwhelms buying, If the next session is a
H- 2240 . . .
L- 21~ . . .
Coo 220:5 ·· ..•···· · ·.. ·Jul -Aug •.. ··· • · .. • • ··.. ···S.'" ..
• 17 114 21 128 15 112 119 126 12 9 16 23 130 16
l4:3{J NGU3 AI V BAR c 1993 Qo IHC
0- 2240
~ ~ . .:. . . .:~jt,~ Q)=";"9
.....................~.~ ~(.u u···:·············~·····!l'~I~t.. ..u.u. 2<00
EXHIBIT 3.67. Evening Star and Flexibility, Natural Gas-September 1993
GAP-DAILY
The Patterns 115
59
58
57
56
55
54
53
52
51
50
49
48
47
46
45
44
43
42
41
40
39
A 06 13
MetaStock by EQUIS Int'l
13 20 27 FlO 18 24 M 09 16 23J 92J 91
black candle that gaps lower, it is called a collapsingdoji star. The three
candles that make up this pattern are the same three as those needed for
the evening doji star. The difference is that the evening doji star has the
doji above the tall white real body, while the collapsing doji star has the
doji gapping under, instead of above, the first white candle. This pattern
is said to be an 'I omen of a large decline."
While not an ideal version, candle lines A, B, and C in Exhibit 3.69
could be viewed as the collapsing doji star pattern. This chart shows the
three main conditions needed for the collapsing doji star pattern: 1) an
uptrend to reverse (at the white candle at A), 2) a doji session that gaps
under the prior session (at B), and 3) another black candle that moves
under the doji session (at C).
Candle lines D and E show a gapping doji pattern (discussed in the
section on windows). While similar in appearance to the collapsing doji
star, the gapping doji is a bearish continuation pattern. This means that
it occurs during a downtrend, while the collapsing doji star is a top
reversal pattern that occurs after an uptrend.
EXHIBIT3.69. Collapsing Doji Star, Gap-Daily
116 Candles
+B
+7
+6
1-5
H
1-3
1-2
+1
1-0
39
38
37
36
35
31­
33
DISNEY - WEEKLY
I
I
I I
r- - - - - - - - - - - - -------------
(I) ~(;~----
I 0(2)
/-----------
Can be white or black.
If this is a doji, the pattern
is a morning doji star.
,~
Piercing (TI k
Pattern ~
I 92 JUN JUL AUG SEP OCT NOIJ DEC I 93 rEB MAR APR my JUN
+B
+7
+t;
+5
++
+3
+2
+1
+0
39
3B
37
36
35
3+
33
MetaStock by EQUIS Int'l
EXHIBIT3.71. Morning Star Confirms Support, Disney-Weekly
EXHIBIT3.70. The
Morning Star
The Patterns 117
The Morning Star
7B
77
76
75
7+
73
72
71
70
69
6B
67
66
65
12 19 26 NS DB It 21 2B 0
MetaStock by EQUIS Int'l
J 92 A 10 17 2+
JCPENN EY - DAILY
7B
77
76
75
7+
73
72
EXHIBIT 3.72. Morning Star, JCPenney-Daily
Exhibit 3.70 shows that the classic morning star has none of the three
real bodies that make up the pattern touching. We can see from the
blended candle in Exhibit 3.70 that the more that real body 3 pushes into
real body 1, the longer the blended candle's lower shadow, and hence
the more bullish the pattern.
As shown in Exhibit 3.71, the area in which August's piercing pattern
appeared became support again in October via a classic morning star.
Also, the middle candle of this morning star was a high-wave candle.
The three candles highlighted in Exhibit 3.72 at the August lows cre­
ated a morning star. When, as in this case, the star portion of this pattern
is a doji, the pattern is referred to as a morning doji star. There is another
interesting aspect about this morning star. If there is a doji session that
has a gap before and after it, is called an abandonedbaby. In this chart of
Penney, note how there was a gap between sessions 2 and 3 of the
morning star and almost a gap between the first two sessions. Thus, this
118 Candles
was almost a very rare abandoned baby pattern. The abandoned baby
bottom is, in terms of a bar chart, an island bottom that is also a doji.
You can image how rare this combination is.
In the next chapter, I will focus on weighing the overall technical
picture in relation to an individual candle pattern. In Exhibit 3.73, I will
briefly address this issue. The hammer is September (at hammer 1) was
a potentially bullish signal. However, this bullishness was mitigated by
the fact that on the day of the hammer, the market opened a falling
window. Note how this window then became a resistance area. A few
sessions later, another hammer formed (shown at hammer 2). The session
after hammer 2 completed the third line needed for the morning star
pattern. So, although there were two hammers in this chart, the overall
technical picture for hammer 2 was more consecutive than it was for
hammer 1 because of hammer 2' s longer lower shadow and because
hammer 2 was part of a morning star pattern. As a result, for those
looking to buy, the area to have considered would be after the completion
of the morning star. Traders who needed more bullish confirmation could
C APPLE - DAILY :J
59
~
59
58 58
57
o.o~t.O,~
57
56 56
55 55
54
t~~'T'D~
54
53 53
52 52
51
l'oO~19,. ~~:g~~w~tt'9'~
51
50 50
49 49
48 48
47
'9+,~1.,(, ~~~ \0+~~~~~
47
46 46
45
Hamme, 1_T9+~~;:::7'
45
44 44
43 43
42 42
L
192 08 14 21 28 o 05 12 19 26 N 09 16
EXHIBIT 3.73. Morning Star and Overall Technical Picture, Apple-Daily
The Patterns 119
have waited until a close above the falling window's resistance area from
mid-October. The rising window in mid-October gave even more bullish
proof.
In Exhibit 3.74, there was a hint of a bottom near $12 based on the
June 1992 bullish engulfing pattern. In late July, the support area of this
pattern (i.e., the lows of the bullish engulfing pattern at $12) was suc­
cessfully defended. However, in August, these lows were breached, but
only temporarily as the bulls were able to regain control of the market
by pulling prices back up over $12 again. In doing so, the market formed
a morning star pattern and a spring.
As shown in Exhibit 3.75, the first candle of a classic morning star has
a large black real body. The third candle of the pattern is a tall white real
body that pushes well into the first candle of the pattern. In the morning
star pattern MI, the first candle had a small white real body instead of a
long lack real body. At patterns M2, the third candle (at the arrow) was
a small white real body instead of the more traditional long white real
body.
AST-WEEKLY
2+
23
22
21
20
19
18
17
16
15
1+
13
12
f-
~ !~
f-
f-
t,~tt, -
-
~H ~,~ -
r-
f-
f-
-
I 91 )92 FEB M~R ~PR my JUN JUL ~UG SEP OCT NOLJ DEC )93 FEB M~R ~PR
2+
23
22
21
20
19
18
17
16
15
1+
13
12
MetaStock by EQUIS Int'l
EXHIBIT 3.74. Morning Star and a Spring, AST-Weekly
120 Candles
GM-DAILEY
39.0
38.5
38.0
37.5
37.0
36.5
36.0
35.5
35.0
34.5
34.0
33.5
33.0
32.5
32.0
31. 5
31. 0
30.5
30.0
29.5
29.0
28.5
28.0
16 23 0 07 14 21 28 J 93 11 18
MetaStockby EQUIS Int'l
EXHIBIT 3.75. Morning Star and Subjectivity, GM-Daily
The fact that both of these morning star variations appeared near the
same support area meant that while both M1 and M2 were not classic
morning star patterns, they should be viewed nonetheless as bullish clues.
This chart underscores an important point-candles are a form of pattern
analysis, and as such, there is a subjectivity that goes with candlestick
analysis.
In this regard, I once wrote to the Nippon Technical Analysts Asso­
ciation to see how they viewed candle chart patterns that were less than
ideal versions of a pattern. This was their response: "We have found our
discussions very interesting in the sense that you try to be very specific
in determining definitions of Japanese exhibit readings while we try to
keep them flexible so as not to exclude all possibilities. This ... may be
traced to differences in the way of thinking of Westerners who prefer
being precise and definite and Orientals who like to be flexible."
The Patterns 121
This highlights an important point in that the exhibits I have illus­
trated are mostly ideal versions of the patterns, but in the real world,
one should not exclude the possibility that a less than ideal version of
that pattern is valid. How do you determine if you should trade from a
less than ideal pattern? Based on the Japanese literature, may conversa­
tions with Japanese candle traders, and my experience, here are a few
suggestions:
1. Wait for more confirmation of that pattern's prediction. For example,
an ideal dark cloud cover should have the second session's close more
than halfway into the first candle's white real body. If the close is less
than halfway into the white real body, then wait until the next session
to see if the market remains weak.
2. If the less than ideal pattern confirms a support or resistance area, or
if it appears in a very oversold or overbought market, the greater the
odds that the pattern will be a reversal. For example, if there is a
hammer in which the lower shadow is not very long, but if this "ham­
mer-like" line confirmed a 50% retracement area, I would view such
action as having all the bullish import as would a more traditional
hammer.
3. A method you may find useful in helping to determine the significance
of a less than ideal pattern is to make a blended candle from that
pattern. Then see if the blended candle confirms the pattern's forecast.
For example, look at Exhibit 3.75 (GM) previously discussed. I used
this chart to draw the blended candles from morning star variations
M1 and M2. Notice how each of these blended candles had long lower
shadows. The long lower shadows of both of the blended candles and
the fact that both M1 and M2 emerged near the same support with the
long white candle following M2 gave clues that the bears were losing
control of this market.
RECORD SESSIONS
Most candle patterns are composed of one, two, or three candles. This
aspect shows one of the major advantages of the candle charts-they can
often send a reversal signal in only a few sessions, whereas bar charts
can take much longer. Although some candle patterns do take longer to
unfold, they are nonetheless extremely valuable. One of these longer
term pattern techniques is the eight to ten record sessions.
When a candle session makes a higher high, the Japanese call it a
122 Candles
Record Sessions
record session high. A lower low is called a record session low. In candle
theory, when there are eight to ten record sessions (that is, eight to ten
almost consecutive higher highs or lower), it increases the possibility that
the preceding trend will change. Exhibit 3.76(A) shows ten record highs
and ten records lows.
Eight to ten record sessions are so important in Japan that they have
been described as being "the bones of Sakata's body." The meaning of
this expression is that just as the bones, or skeleton, of a person's body
are its foundation, so are record sessions the foundation or essence of
the Sakata charts. (Sakata charts are another name for candle charts.
Sakata was the port city in which Homma traded. In recognition of this,
there are many references throughout the Japanese literature to candle
charts being called Sakata charts.)
I will now discuss how to count record session highs, but the theory
will be the same for record session lows. First, confirm that a low price
for the move has occurred. The top of Exhibit 3.76(A) displays how, after
a new low, the next session made a higher high. This session became
record session 1. Record session 2 occurs when another new high is made
(this includes the upper shadow). Note how the session after record
session high 1 was not a record session. This was because a new high
Low
(B)
Start new 2
c;unt \
I 1
4\ I I I
3 I
2 I Low 2
I 1 I
I II
I
8
11
1
10
(A)
10 record lows
Low
10 record highs
High
'1 ;I , I I
3 4
10
8 i I I
5 611 I
3 i I I I
I 1 2 I
I I I I
EXHIBIT 3.76.
Record Sessions
The Patterns 123
was not created. Only when a new high was touched was it counted as
record session 2.
To count record sessions in a downturn, first confirm that a new high
has been set. The session that makes a lower low then becomes record
session 1. The next lower low then becomes record session 2.
The theory of record high sessions is that during a rally, a trader
should stop buying after eight to ten record session highs (or liquidate
longs, or sell short with the appearance of a bearish candle signal after
these record session highs). The same philosophy, but in reverse, should
be considered after a decline with eight to ten record session lows. To
wit, a trader should stop selling after about eight record session lows (or
cover shorts, or buy looking for a bounce with a bullish candle signal
after eight or more record session lows).
The record session count need not be consecutive. A few sessions of
consolidation can be ignored when counting the new highs or lows.
Generally, there should not be more than two or three sessions of side­
ways action between the record sessions, nor should there be a sharp
move counter to the record session trend.
The reason that record sessions should be almost consecutive has to
do with the underlying concept of record sessions. In the case of eight­
ten record session highs (lows), the market becomes overbought (over­
sold). In an overbought (oversold) situation, the market becomes vul­
nerable to a price dip (rally) as those who are currently long (short) may
decide to take their profits.
The market can relieve an overbought or oversold situation in one of
two ways-by trading laterally or by experiencing a sharp price correc­
tion. If the market corrects the overbought or oversold situation by either
of these methods, the record session count is no longer valid since the
market is no longer overextended, and thus is less vulnerable to a cor­
rection. For example, in Exhibit 3.76(B), observe how the market got to
record session high 5, then quickly sold off for three sessions. Because
of the extent of the selloff during these three sessions, the market relieved
its overbought condition. As shown, a new count is then started after
low 2.
Do not be too concerned with the specific number of record sessions.
The eight to ten record session rule is a guidepost. Each market has its
own personality. Just as those who follow cycles may find that different
markets have different cycles, so some markets may correct after six or
twelve record session instead of the more normal eight-ten sessions.
In Exhibit 3.77, from the low at X, we start the record session high
count at the next candle since it made a higher high. After record session
8, the market formed two doji. These doji reflected a market that is tiring.
For those who were looking for a reason to exit longs, these doji and the
124 Candles
MEXICO TELEPHONE - WEEKLY
60 11 60
59 r-Shoollng 59
58 10 Star 58f
57
8 1o. ,~
57
56 56
55
.7 ~T t t ~+~+O·I
55
54 54
53
:~w ',~
53
52 52
51 51
50
~ 3~~ 1 ~'~tl~QO
50
49 49
48 48
47 47
46 46
45
t,~
45
44 44
43 43
42 42
41
X
41
)92 AUG SEP OCT NOV DEC )93 FEB MAR APR MAY JUN
MetaStock by EQUIS Int'l
EXHIBIT 3.77. Record Session Highs, Mexico Telephone-Weekly
high number of record sessions were valid reasons. A final push occurred
in late 1992 as the extended upper shadow candle-the shooting star-in
record session 11 denoted a last gasp for the bulls.
Exhibit 3.78' illustrates how a steep price decline that started with a
bearish engulfing pattern dragged the market down over 50% from its
highs within a few months. After nine record session lows, the market
started to stabilize. Exhibit 3.78 is an example of how the candles not
only show the trend of the market, but also can give more insight into
the market's health by the color of the candles. The Japanese have a
saying, "as different as snow from coaL" The short term rally from Oc­
tober (from the bullish engulfing pattern) showed that the bulls were in
charge based on the series of white real bodies (the "snow"). The post
November selloff pictorially displays the market's weakness with an al­
most consecutive series of black real bodies (the "coal").
In Exhibit 3.79, a gravestone doji appeared in early September. Inter-
The Patterns 125
70
35
70
40
75
55
45
50
65
80
60
45
75
65
80
Q
Bearish
III Engulfing
y Pattern
6 ~t t~!~¢
:: ~+ ~+"~~ S ·t Bullish tl50 Enguffing
Pattern 7
estingly, this gravestone also confirmed that there was a potential top
based on the record session concept. After making a new low at L, the
market on the next day made a higher high. This was record session 1.
After record session 3, the market took a breather for a few days before
going on to a fresh new high, and then formed record session 4. As we
can see, between record sessions 3 and 4, the market can trade laterally
for a few sessions without interrupting the count for record sessions.
(However, if these sessions after record session 5 were sharp selloffs,
then the record session count would have to start again). By the time the
Nikkei gets to record sessions 7 and 8 (which are shooting stars), the
market is already in trouble, with the gravestone doji at record session 9
becoming a top.
In Exhibit 3.80, a piercing pattern emerged after a nine-count record
session. As a result, a rebound could be expected. From the 1993 high
near $21 to the low of the piercing pattern, we get a 50% retracement
AMGEN - WEEKLY
40
35
MetaStock by EQUIS Int'l
EXHIBIT 3.78. Record Session Lows, Amgen-Weekly
I 92 JUN JUL ,.AUG SEP OCT NoU DEC j 93 FEB MAR APR MAY JUN JUL
• 113 120 127 13 110 117 124 131 17 114 121 128 15 112
126 Candles
EXHIBIT 3.79. Record Session High and Bearish Confirmation, Nikkei-Daily
1800
2000
C'l 1993 eQG INC.CL I.IEEKLY BAR
8/30193
0= 1878H= 1880L= 1785C= 1797···· 'Jul "Oct Jan · · 'Apr "Jul 1600
• 11993
7:52
9 Gravestone
. 1---0"". . . . " . . .. 7 8 L' OJI •
: : 6b!1~ I ~I:
u. u. uu u~ 4~tl~~ .Duhjl6 J.,t~·;· 1_
+i+1, . . : . . I ~.: . . . ..!! OlD
lyO I • 2~16~ • •
....... uu.I~IIt··D~·+jnti···tu.....u isooo
. t: 'tt~!!I~~ : •
................................................................... L · ······ .. ··..·· ······ .. ·····.· .. ··· · 14000
10/12/92
0- 17094H- 17307L- 17087
C- 17302 Aug :S.P :oci
14:14 NKC5 DAILY BAR @ 1992 CQG INC.
0= 17094
H= 17307
L... 17087L,,; 17302 ,............ 20000
p +242
0=
H=L=i
~···t~ttn\,~~~f·l.~~t\..~...........u...... 2200
t, . qH . \ • q.
. (]8. ~ro~
: 9 Pattern
EXHIBIT 3.80. Record Session Lows and Retracement Levels, Crude Oil-Weekly
The Patterns 127
level near $19. This is where the market stalled after the rebound from
the piercing pattern.
Note
lSakata, Coho, p. 92.
CHAPTER 4
CANDLES AND THE
OVERALL TECHNICAL
PICTURE..............................................................................
"He Who Sits in a Well to Look at the Sky Can See But Little"
A Japanese book that I had translated states that, "Action that ignores
the condition of the market is only asking for a loss and an ambush
encounter."! This picturesque saying (using the typical military analogy
so common in Japanese technical analysis) means that you must consider
the overall market condition before trading with the candles. Otherwise,
you may be in for a "loss and ambush encounter ."
A member of the Nippon Technical Analysts Association wrote to me
that he views the overall technical picture as more important than an
individual candle pattern. I certainly agree with that sentiment. Effective
candle charting techniques require not only an understanding of the can­
dle patterns, but a policy of using sound, coherent trading strategies and
tactics. It is unfortunate that some traders who know about the candle
patterns often ignore such tactics. The candles are a tool that must be
incorporated with other trading guidelines. In this sense, I have always
viewed the candles as being another color, albeit an important one, on
my technical palette.
A disciple of Confucius once asked him who would he take to war
with him. Confucius answered that he would not want someone who
did not care whether he lived or died. He would take someone who
approached difficulties with appropriate caution and who preferred to
129
•
130 Candles
succeed by strategy. And strategy is the focus of this chapter; here I show
the i~portance of such strategic principles as using stops, determining
the risk and reward aspects of a trade, observing where a candle pattern
is in relation to the overall trend, and monitoring the market's action
a~ter a trade is placed. By understanding and using these trading prin­
ciples, you will be in a position to most fully enhance the power of the
candles. By the end of this chapter, you should understand that what
emerges before and after a candle pattern is a critical element of trading.
STOPS
"Even Monkeys Fall from Trees"
There should always be a price at which you say your outlook is wrong.
The protective stop out level is that price. No matter how reliable the
\etn:n\ta\ \QQ\, \nete Wll.\'oe \\mes wnen \ne signal ob\ainea. trom \n.a\ \00\
is wrong. By using stops, you are defining the risk of a trade. In effect,
the use of stops provides one of the most powerful aspects of technical
analysis; it offers a risk management approach to the market.
Many of the candlestick patterns can become a support or resistance
area. For example, a dark cloud cover often acts as resistance. As such,
for those who are short, a protective buy stop can be placed on a close
above the high of the dark cloud cover. In Exhibit 4.1, we see that an
uptrend that started in early January stopped via a dark cloud cover as
the market went from an uptrend preceding this pattern into a lateral
band after the dark cloud. The dark cloud cover acted as resistance for
the next 7 sessions. But the rising window and then the close above the
high of the dark cloud cover were signs that the market was ready to
once again advance.
It is human nature that when price action turns against you, wishful
thinking enters the picture. For instance, after the market pushed above
the stop out level in Exhibit 4.1 (the high of the dark cloud cover), some
traders who were short may have hoped that the market would then turn
around and decline. But in the market, there is no room for hope. Staying
in a market that moves through a stop out level in the hope that prices
will then turn is, as a picturesque Japanese proverb states: "To lean a
ladder against the clouds."
In Exhibit 4.2, we see that a rising window emerged in April 1993.
Based on candle theory, this window should be support, as it was during
the September 1993 pullback. Whether a trader bought on a pullback into
the window, or whether he or she was previously long, a protective sell
• 123 130 17 114 121 128 14 111 118 125 11 18 115 122
Candles and the Overall TechnicalPicture 131
2/23/930= 11015 10000
H= 11115
L= 11006
C= 11106 Dec Jan Feb
4000
3750
3500
3250
~
· . Dark Cloud . n?~
· . Cover. IU
........................: ·····:·..·························Q········ ..·6·~*+lo·t···tQ············ 10800
: : ~I¢b tr'O\
. .' . 'n,' :nH . n~O·9+· : ~~~~~. .
· QU t ,,1,. .V I u .· V ,. .
........................: ·~·Q·t·t.h9 +:t : ·t·+·.~·Q·······················:···································· 10400
O'bt?+ • :.9~ .. 't~ .
9:4:;> S( UE~I{ V RAR lC) 1~ CQ6 INC
0.. 3650
H" 3650L=, 3650
~.~...............u.u.u.....u...H~~ .....u..
· . . . ~ ~. t u
~ . l''D . . n Window'
· h+ . t, . ~ +0Y . Window
+ t+ J. 1 Holds· . tuTV, . . . as
_10118193 . T Uob.!l+~TOt . . Support
0- 3650 .H= 3650
L= 3650 .~__ 'Jul 'Octc= 3650 Jl 'OCt 'Jan 'HPr
9:57 TREH I 0 of 2 ) BOA':! A V RAR ( l)i'9~ QG IN....
0= 11015
H= 11115'
L~ 11006
L'; 11106'"
1\= +28
..................................................................................................................................................... 11200
• 11S'93
EXHIBIT 4.1. Exceeding a Dark Ooud Cover, Bonds-March 1993
EXHIBIT 4.2. Stops and Risk Tolerance, Gold-Weekly
132 Candles
stop should be on a weekly close (i.e., a Friday close) under the bottom
of the rising window. Note how, in this market, the window was pierced
on an intra-weekly basis, but the bears did not have enough staying
power to maintain prices under the bottom of the window by the close
of the week. In this case, the window held as support, but not all traders
would have been able to stand the emotional ride in this market as prices
pulled under the window and then sprang back above the bottom of the
window before the Friday close. This example illustrates how trading
depends to a large extent on a trader's temperament.
As shown in Exhibit 4.3, Amgen held the rising window as support
when it pulled back to there in November. The successful test of the
rising window confirmed the health of the market. The rebound from the
successful test of the window pushed prices above $75. At that point,
the market gave some clues of trouble based on a harami pattern. Over
the next few weeks, the market started to top out via a classic head and
shoulders pattern denoted by S-H-S (the Japanese call the head and
shoulders a Three-Buddha Pattern). When prices penetrated the neckline
AMGEN - DAILY
75
70
65
60
55
50
t5
to
35
J92 26 N 091623 0071+ 21 28 J93 11 1825 r 081622
MelaSlock by EQUIS Int'l
EXHIBIT 4.3. Stops, Amgen-Daily
Candles and the Overall TechnicalPicture 133
of this head and shoulders top, it should have been a sign for longs to
exit. A final warning about the weak state of the market was given when,
in early 1993, the bears finally managed to drag prices under the rising
window, which heretofore had been support. This break of the window
could have been another protective sell stop signal for existing longs.
RISK/REWARD
,'The Side that Knows When to Fight and When Not to Will Take the
Victory"
I often find that, after my seminars, people in the audience are so excited
about the new ' 'light" offered by the candles that they cannot wait to
get back to their offices or homes to place a trade based on a candle
pattern. However, as one of the books that I had translated stated (a
trader must) "wait for time to ripen, waiting for just the right moment
is virtuous, a patient mind or spirit is essential. ,,2 In other words, just
because there is a candle pattern, it does not mean that the" time is ripe"
for a trade. I try to warn my audiences that one of the most important
aspects in determining the "right moment" for a trade is to inspect the
risk/reward aspect of the market at the time the candle pattern is formed.
In this context, a trader who was in an institutional trading group for
whom I gave a special seminar wrote to me that, "You were certainly
correct-a little knowledge can be dangerous. We're all running around
the office shouting 'Doji, Doji.'"
A stop, by defining the risk of a trade, is one of the components of
the risk and reward picture. The other component is the price target of
the trade, or the potential "reward." There are many ways to determine
price targets, from Elliott Wave to previous support or resistance areas.
Because candle charting techniques usually do not provide a price target,
I often recommend the joining of Western technicals with candles. The
candles are excellent for sending a reversal or a continuation signal, while
the Western tools, such as retracements or trend lines, can help provide
a price target. You probably already have your own methodology to
obtain price targets.
A key point to remember is that unless there is an attractive risk/
reward ratio at the time the candle pattern is completed, stay away from
the trade. As a Japanese proverb says, "His potential is that of the fully
drawn bow-his timing the release of the trigger." The timing of the
"release of the trigger" depends on the risk/reward aspect of the trade.
There will be times when you should not release the trigger. For
example, without an attractive risk/reward ratio at the time that a bullish
or bearish candle signal emerges, the trade should be ignored (unless a
134 Candles
trader is using the candle signal to offset a position). Another time to
step away from the market is when there is an exchange of big black
candles and big white candles: "Just like it was an earthquake of mag­
nitude 8,,,3 as one of the Japanese technical analysis books states. As this
same Japanese book graphically states about trying to enter such a mar­
ket, "Dying in vain is not fun.""
As shown in Exhibit 4.4, there was a bearish engulfing pattern in
early September. Based on the concept that the high of the bearish en­
gulfing pattern should be resistance, a trader wanting to sell short could
place a protective buy stop above the high of this bearish engulfing pat­
tern at 465. This defines the risk. To obtain a target, the trader could, for
instance, look for the mid-August rising window as a support area on
any price retreats. With this window as a target, the appearance of the
bearish engulfing pattern made for an attractive short sale because of the
relatively low risk stop as compared to the target.
In Exhibit 4.5, we see that a rally that started with a bullish engulfing
pattern in January formed a rising window later that month. Two sessions
after this window, the market formed a bearish engulfing pattern. A
question that a trader who is looking to sell short on that signal must ask
13: 4 TREN ( 0 of 2 ) SPz3 DAILY BAR (') 1993 CQG INC.
0.. 45865
H" 46320
L"" 45860
~: 4:~~8'" : : Bearish Engulfing 47000
. . Pattern
. .y
........u...uu..:uu~!J9!~jLJl4_
. . . ... . . . .W;nd~--~r~ ...t~
45000
. : . 0 ": :
. . .
..................................................................................................................................................... 44000
9/10/93
a.. 45865
H" 46320
L" 45860
C" 46275 ..Jul .Aug .Sep
• 17 114 121 128 15 112 /19 126 12 19 116 123 130 16
EXHIBIT 4.4. Candles and the Aspects of Risk/Reward,S & P-December 1993
Candles and the Overall TechnicalPicture 135
Wal-Mart - DAILY
Cfg~'::.33.5 o Cover 33.5
33.0 Bearish 9' 33.0Engulfing 0 t
32.5
Dtll~ ~Q~Q r"t
32.5
32.0 32.0
R;,;~ _ ~31. 5 Window 31. 5
31. 0
It~.
31. 0
30.5
!, ~I~••++
30.5
30.0
,
30.0
29.5
~B"m", Eo,""o, Pattern
29.5
J 92 J 93 11 IB 25 F DB 16 22
MetaStock by EQUIS Int'l
EXHIBIT 4.5. Candles and the Importance of Risk/Reward, Wal-Mart-Daily
is: "Does a short sale based on this bearish engulfing pattern offer an
attractive risk/reward?" (Selling short is relatively rare in the stock mar­
ket. Nonetheless, this chart can be used as a guidepost for other markets,
such as futures, where short selling is more common.) Looking at the
overall technical picture and considering the risk/reward aspect, such a
trade would not be warranted. This is because of the rising window that
preceded the bearish engulfing pattern. A short sale from this bearish
engulfing pattern should mean a stop above the high of the bearish en­
gulfing pattern. With the support at the rising window, this is not an
attractive risk/reward trade since, in this case, the risk and reward are
about equal. A few weeks later, a dark cloud cover arose. Now, with the
high of the dark cloud cover as a stop and the window as a target, this
becomes a more attractive trading opportunity from the short side.
Exhibit 4.5 underscores the difficulty of trying to determine which of
the candlestick patterns is more important. In this chart, there was a
136 Candles
1100
1200
1300
@ 1992 COG INC.
113 120 T27 13
C H2 DAILY BAR
bearish engulfing pattern. Normally, that pattern is considered more
bearish than a dark cloud cover because the black candle of the engulfing
pattern envelops the entire prior white candle, rather than just part of
the white candle, as is the case with the dark cloud cover. But in this
example, selling short with the dark cloud cover offered a better trading
opportunity than selling short with the bearish engulfing pattern.
As shown in Exhibit 4.6, the appearance of a bullish candle signal
does not always warrant a new long position. In this chart, we see that
that a bullish morning star was formed by the price action on January 8,
9, and 10. The close on January 10 (the day the morning star was com­
pleted) was at $1205. Let us look at whether a buy at $1205is an appealing
trade based on the risk/reward ratio. First, to determine the reward, we
see that there was a support area from late November near $1220. Based
on the change of polarity principle (where old support becomes new
resistance), a trader who was looking at the market in early January
(when the bullish morning star was formed) might then expect a bounce
to resistance near $1220. So the target is near $1220. To determine the
risk in this trade, we would use the candle theory that the low of the
morning star pattern should be support. In this case, the stop would be
on a close under the morning star pattern at $1169.
2/ 7192
0= 1132
Hz 1137
L= 1125
C= 1128 :Dec :Jan
0= 1132
H= 1137 '.L= 1125·····.····· ...··· ...... ···............................................................................................................... 1400
L= 1128
a= +7
• 14 111 118 125 12 19 116 123 130 -16
10:27
EXHIBIT 4.6. Risk/Reward, Cocoa-March 1992
Candles and the Overall TechnicalPicture 137
Consequently, the parameters of this trade are: buying at $1205 (at
the completion of the morning star pattern), a stop at $1169, and a target
near $1220. This means a $36 risk and a $15 target. Not an attractive risk/
reward trade by any stretch of the imagination! The morale of the story:
do not place a trade just because a candle pattern emerges. Note how
the bottom of the morning star became support a week later. The rally
from there stalled at the expected $1220 resistance area via a high-wave
candle at 1 and the long black real body at 2. These two candles formed
a bearish engulfing pattern. Normally, a bearish engulfing pattern after
such a small preceding uptrend is not too important. But in this specific
case, it took an extra significance since it confirmed the $1220 resistance
area.
TREND
"It is Easier to Run Down a Hill Than Up One"
There is a beautiful Japanese phrase, "as clouds to the wind and winds
to the blossom." In the context of trading, I would compare the trend to
the wind and the price to the clouds or blossoms, whose movements are
controlled by the wind. Thus, determining where the most curtent price
is in relation to the trend is of vital importance. This means that a candle
pattern should be viewed in the context of the prevailing trend before
deciding if a new position should be initiated.
The method I usually recommend for incorporating the candle pat­
terns into the trend is to place a new trade in the direction of the pre­
vailing trend and to offset a position when there is a reversal signal
against the prevailing trend. For instance, bearish candle signals in bull
trends should be used to offset longs (or to take other protective measures
such as selling calls or moving up sell stop levels). But a bullish candle
signal in a bull trend could be used to place a new long position. The
opposite would be true in markets with major downtrends, To wit, ini­
tiating a short sale on a bearish candle signal should be the main goal in
a bear market. A bullish signal in a bear market could be used to cover
shorts.
There are many ways to determine trend. (In Part 2 of this book, I
will reveal some popular methods of trend determination used by Japa­
nese traders and investors.) The goal of this section is not to help you
find the best way to determine trend, but to get you to think about some
ways to incorporate trend into your candle analysis. In this section, I will
discuss some of the more common Western methods of trend determi­
nation such as trendlines and moving averages.
138 Candles
8000
9500
8500
9000
EXHIBIT 4.7. Confirming a Trend Reversal, Coffee-December 1991
For those who would like to learn more about the practical applica­
tions of some of the most popular Western technical tools, including
those techniques to help determine trend, I highly recommend the book,
Technical Traders Guide to Computer Analysis of the Futures Market, by
Charles LeBeau and David Lucas (Island View Financial Group, Torrance,
CA). Do not let the title of the book dissuade you if you do not use
computers to trade. This book is a must for any trader who uses Western
technical techniques.
One of the most basic methods of determining trend is to use a trend­
line. In Exhibit 4.7, we see how a resistance line from late June to early
August kept the trend bearish. The candles gave some early warnings of
a market that was bottoming. Specifically, the hammer in July, the morn­
ing star in early August, and a small rising window in late August (which
also completed an island bottom). Yet, all these bullish signals were in
the context of a bear market (as defined by the downward sloping resis­
tance line). It was not until the break above the trendline that a new
bullish trend was confirmed. Note how the rally from this breakout stalled
at September's dark cloud cover. That dark cloud cover then became a
resistance level.
Exhibit 4.8 shows how in early July, there was a bearish engulfing
• 17 16
12:0 CFZ1 DAILY BAR @ 1991 CQG I C.
0= 8950
H= 8970.L- 8730
~~ ~I;gv . Dark Cloud .
.............................................................................................................................. Cover .
. . . Cf •
· . • . .~ !. . ~ . . 1 . . .
HH:.il~t~18,lfHJH
· . . . . ~... II ~I' . . . .
· . : . Hammer. .:. (J) TO ~~~ Ri~ing' .
Morning (I VlOY) . WI~dow
Star ~. .
9/17/91' . Island· . .- Bottom .0- 8950. . .H= 8970L= 8730c= 8760
EXHIBIT 4.8. Candle Signals and Trendlines, Five-Year Note-September 1993
(~~ G H
Candles and the Overall TechnicalPicture 139
Y B RUU3
...................................................................................... 10000
0=0111155
H-111155
L=.111125
L-111130A
6- -20 Bearish Engulfing
Pattern
. ~ .
...................................................(~. Vi ' l······u=l~"'u... 12000
. . .: . . . W~ t ·f ij': 9',
: ~ : 'h,~~.···OlijTIt··.uu....,;y~'ott!L....uflojl uu........ 11000
~ . . . QY. .
~ . ij
······Jij\;Tij·lr~L n~l
,
pattern (the empty space was due to a holiday). But looking at the overall
technical picture, including the trendline, it is obvious that a short sale
based on the bearish engulfing pattern would not offer an attractive trade
based on risk/reward levels. This is because the target should be the
support defined by the trendline, and a stop should be above the high
of the bearish engulfing pattern. The uptrend was confirmed as broken
when the market closed under the trendline on July 19.
Using Exhibits 4.9(A) and (B), I show an example of how a bullish
candle signal could be used as a buying opportunity on a pullback in bull
trend. Exhibit 4.9(A) is a chart that shows a nicely defined uptrend sup­
port line (the more often a trendline is tested, the more important it
should be). Candle 1 is shown as it looked on the morning of September
15, 1993. Since the session was not yet over, candle 1 is not yet formed
for the day (remember that a completed candle needs a closing price).
As shown in Exhibit 4.9(A), at the time the chart was drawn (the morning
of September 15), the market had just tested a long-term uptrend support
line. Shifting over to the intra-day 3O-minute candle chart in Exhibit 4.9(B),
note how a bullish engulfing pattern unfolded during the morning of
September 15. The dashed line in Exhibit 4.9(B) represents the same
trendline on the daily chart. We see how a bullish candle signal appeared
during a selloff to an uptrend support line. This showed the concept that,
140 Candles
( 1993 CQG IN •B023 DAILY BARTREN ( 1 of 2 )
CPl1826
H=o 11827
L= 1'1726
L" 11807V
4" -24
.................................................................................................................................................... 12000
10:
• I 9/13 I 9/14 I 9/15 I 9/16 I 9/17
......u....u.......:..............u...u..u...................uijrr*lt~!t". iaooo
• • . ?ijfll: .CD~
....................................: : ·l~···· : 11600
1 : ~99~~~.~
. .+~Httll. ~tilh U T .
OtT+? ~+~Q ~Qt: :··················..6·~·t·O·~······:··················· : : 11200
~~+9~9 .
•
• II! • • • ij!t.....:.u...uu,jttlJJ1t••···u·····nl··~It~~li: .. ~H JttL 11900
: ; 'I li~h: I1lf~ ..t.~~~ .............. u.u ... u············,t.t······,,,,,-_w.,.............. IlBOO
0.. r~~6213:50 •••••······:················l······-:···~~~············ : :
H.. 11903 ••••••••••• . S . Engulfing
L" 11901 . u~port
Coo 11901 Line Pattern
14: 19 BD23 30 MINUTE BAR ( 1993 CQG INC.
0= 11822
H=o 11916Loo 11811··········· , ,. 12100
L" 11901
A= -1
EXHIBIT 4.9(B). Candles and Trendlines, Bonds-December 1993, Intra-Day
EXHIBIT 4.9(A). Candles and Trendlines, Bonds-December 1993, Daily
Candles and the Overall TechnicalPicture 141
s13 20 27 fl 10 17 2+J
MetaStock by EQUIS Int'l
INTERNATIONAL PAPER - DAILY
'92 26 J DB 15 22
72.5 72.5
r
~T~~70.0 52 Week Moving Average 70.0
67.5 ,~ t t~ ~ 67.5
n Doji
65.0 ~ ~ 65.0
Harami
62.5 , ~ ~~ 62.5
EXHIBIT 4.10. Trading with the Trend, International Paper-Daily
in a bull trend, we look for corrections on which to buy with a bullish
candle signal.
For those who use moving average to help define the trend, I illustrate
in Exhibit 4.10 how to use candle signals to trade within the trend. Based
on the fact that the market is under the moving average, the trend is
down. In such an environment, bearish candle signals can be used to sell
short and bullish candle signals should be used to cover shorts. For trad­
ers who are more risk oriented and may want to buy in a bear market,
use a short-term resistance area as a target. In this example, a rally started
with a harami in June. However, as the market got to the 52-week moving
average resistance area, the candles reflected increased selling pressure
as shown by the long upper shadow candle at 1 and the long black real
body candle at 2. For traders who bought at the harami, the resistance
area defined by the moving average should be an area to liquidate. For
those who were looking to go in the same direction as the overall trend
(in this case, sell on bounces), then the aforementioned bearish candle
142 Candles
signals could be used to sell short. The falling window showed that the
bears gave the market an extra pull lower. The long white candles in
mid-July was a hint of strength. The rally from these candles stopped via
a doji that stalled at the moving average resistance area. This was an
extremely attractive short sale since that doji area was not only at the 52­
week moving average, but it was also at the falling window's resistance
area. Note how after this sell-off the market bounced back after 9
record session lows.
BECOMING A MARKET CHAMELEON
"An Anny Manages its Victory in Accordance with the Situation of the
Enemy"
When first placing a trade, you have expectations about how the market
should act. However, the market is fluid, ever flowing, and ever chang­
ing. As a result, you must continually monitor the market's path to see
if price action performs according to your expectations. If not, you will
have to take appropriate action. Adapting to changing market conditions
is what I call being a market chameleon. Being a market chameleon, that
is, quickly and effectively adapting to a new market environment, is a
vital element to successful trading. There is an appropriate quote that I
heard years ago. It compares trading to fencing. It said that in trading,
as in fencing, there are the quick and the dead. Being a market chameleon
means that you are quick enough to adapt to the market so as to "live"
to trade another day.
When a trader has a market opinion, there should be a price that tells
him or her that their market forecast is wrong. I will look at this aspect
in Exhibit 4.11. In that chart, there was a dark cloud cover in the latter
part of October. At that point, I turned bearish on this market because a
confluence of technical factors hinted that prices would not close above
$36. There were four reasons to expect any rallies to stall in the $35.50­
$36.00 area. These were:
1. The high of the dark cloud cover at $35.50 should become a resistance
area.
2. A small falling window provides resistance near $36.
3. The lows of the three session prior to the falling window were near
$36. Based on the concept that old support becomes resistance, this
$36 support should be converted to resistance.
4. A Fibonacci 62% retracement of the decline from A to B was near
$35.50.
Candles and the Overall TechnicalPicture
14: 1P CLZO DAILY BAR © 1PPO CQG INC.
0= 2PPO
~: ~~~g
L= 3000/\. . A .
.. -:12..HHtI~F~~'k~'O:dH
· . . . . . . .. l' n? .•. .
. . : . . 0. : . ~~i~gw . U· :!~ .~ I· . . . . . ~O· . . . . .. 'y ,
· . . : . ~~U· : . . ~ 0 . :. . t.....................y : ~ ~.I···t·+··········· : ·····:····················t···
· . . '. *.•~. . . . . ./ . .. .
· . 10 . : O~· . . : . . . .:. .
QT ' . B.· 0 '!' +' . . . . . . . .
......?lQ.~ : : .~.t.~.. L : : : ~ : : : : ~ : : .
11116/PO
0= 2PPO
H= 3030
L= 2P25
C= 3000 :Sep :Oct Nov
• 113 120 127 13 110 117 124 11 18 115 122 12P 15 112
EXHIBIT 4.11. Looking for a Price to Adjust a Market Opinion, Crude Oil­
December 1990
In this case, if the bulls had enough force to close prices above the
top end of my $35.50-$36.00 resistance area, I would then have had to
change my bearish stance. In other words, I would have had to adapt to
new market conditions. We can see that although the bulls tried for a
few weeks after the dark cloud cover to push the market above the top
end of the $35.50-$36.00 resistance area, they failed.
Exhibit 4.12 displays a resistance area in late December near $20 that
was verified by a hanging man and bearish engulfing pattern (the space
between these two candles was due to a holiday). The price slide that
began near this $20 area tried to stabilize in early January near the $19
support area from the month before. The long black real body of January
12 broke this $19 support. Thus, up until that time, all the signals coming
from the market were negative. However, candle clues that the market
was changing its complexion came with the high-wave candle after the
long black real body. Another warning about having to adjust from a
bearish view to a more constructive view about the market came the
following week with the morning star pattern. Final proof of a turn­
around came with a rising window.
143
4000
3500
3000
2500
The Importance of Where a Candle Pattern Appears
As discussed previously, one should never view a candle signal without
seeing the pattern in the context of what happened before the pattern
appeared. This aspect is related to a question frequently asked of me­
which are the most important candle patterns? In answering this, I first
1800
1900
2000
2100
< 1993 CQG INC.CLH3 DAILY BAR
COMPUTERS AND CANDLES
"Even Beautiful Things Have Disadvantagesand Must be Used with
Caution"
Many technical analysts base their trading strategies on computer testing.
With the Widespread use of computers and the popularity of candles,
there may be traders who may want to use computers to find the most
important or reliable candle patterns. For those who may decide to do
such testing, I think it is important that other aspects, besides just having
the computer pick out the candle patterns, must be taken into account
with such testing. That is the focus of this section.
~I. : Bearish Engulfing :
H'jij'l~t.tQlt~:g;~grqotHlltl~Mlt·!1
. : . . :. . . ~. :
: . Morning:
. High Wave Star. 2/12/93..................................................................... Candle .
0= 2030H= 2032L" 2012C= 2014 :Dec :Jan :Feb
0= 2030
H= 2032
L" 2012L= 2014'"
6= -12
12:5
• 19 116 123 130 17 114 121 128 14 111 118 125 11 8
EXHIBIT 4.12. Being a Chameleon by Adapting to the Market, Crude Oil-March
1993
144 Candles
Candles and the Overall TechnicalPicture 145
The Question of Determining Specific Criteria for the Pattern
The candle patterns are based on sound psychological reasoning. (Think
about what happens with a dark cloud cover. After a strong white ses­
sion, the market opens higher and then closes well under the white
session's close. Doesn't that clearly illustrate how the bears have man­
aged to wrest control from the bulls?) But candles, unlike mathematically
EXHIBIT 4.13. Comparing a
Dark Cloud Cover With a Bearish
Engulfing Pattern
4-- Close for Bearish
EngulfingPattern
Close for dark
....1--- cloud cover
I~
I
suggest thinking about what the pattern is relaying about the market's
action. For example, in comparing a dark cloud cover with a bearish
engulfing pattern, I would normally consider the bearish engulfing pat­
tern as more important. This is based on the fact that the second session
of the bearish engulfing pattern has a close under the prior white real
body. The dark cloud cover's second session, however, has a close within
the prior white real body. As such, the bearish engulfing pattern shows
that the bears had more control of the market as compared to the dark
cloud cover (see Exhibit 4.13).
But candle patterns can never be viewed in isolation. A trader always
has to consider the surrounding technical picture. For example, a dark
cloud cover that arises at a major resistance area should be construed as
being more likely a reversal than would a bearish engulfing pattern that
is not at resistance. An instance of the danger of looking at a pattern in
isolation is shown in Exhibit 4.5 on page 135 where, because of risk/
reward considerations, a dark cloud cover offered a more attractive trade
than did a bearish engulfing pattern. Thus, looking at a candle pattern
in isolation can be a dangerous procedure. As was nicely expressed to
me by a Japanese trader, "where you stand is more important than an
individual pattern." As a result, if you decide to test out the reliability
of the candle patterns, remember not to just use a buy or sell signal based
solely on the candle pattern. You must first factor into your analysis just
where the pattern emerged.
146 Candles
concrete numbers, such as moving averages or oscillators, may not be
easily adaptable to computer testing. A moving average either is, or isn't,
above yesterday's close. This is a yes-no choice for the computer. But
candle signals are not this clear-cut, and subjectivity is required in de­
termining what is or is not a candle pattern.
A classic dark cloud cover should have the close of the black candle
session more than halfway into the prior white's real body. That is a rule
that can be quantified. But what if there were a less than ideal dark cloud
cover in which the close of the black candlestick session did not get more
than halfway into the prior white session's real body? That, based on the
standard definition of a dark cloud cover, would not be a dark cloud
cover pattern and the computer might not pick up such a pattern. The
question then becomes: What happens when a less than ideal dark cloud
cover shows up near a resistance area? Does a computer read that as a
dark cloud cover or does it ignore the pattern? In such a scenario, I would
say that the less than ideal dark cloud cover should be viewed as being
just as bearish as a more traditional dark cloud cover. This is the scenario
that unfolded in Exhibit 4.14. Note the annotation that has a question
BANK AMERICA - DAILY
CD Dark
55 Cloud 55
H Cover?
54 ,. 54
!~~, j~t6?i'!"'t o( ~IO'I 6~ illl,! 10!j~1
53 53
52 52
~ 1 l ~ "~~ ~,. I ~S\ r- ':l\
'J'U
~ \\ \b~" \1~ 'l
-" ':lIJ
49 49
48 I-
D~ loll
48
47 47
16 ~ I016 1 - 46
15 ~t ~ 45
44 T 44
J 93 18 25 F 08 16 22 M 08 15 22 29 A 12 19 26 M
MetaStock by EQUIS Int'I
EXHIBIT4.14. Candles and Subjectivity, Bank America-Daily
Candles and the Overall TechnicalPicture 147
mark after the term II dark cloud cover." This was not an ideal dark cloud
cover because the close did not move under the center of the prior white
candle. However, although this was not an ideal dark cloud cover, I still
viewed it as a dark cloud cover for a few reasons. First was the extremely
long upper shadow of the black candle of the pattern. This showed how
quickly prices retreated from the new highs. In addition, by the close of
this black candle, the market was technically damaged because the bears
were able to drag prices back under a prior high (marked H on the chart).
This formed a bearish upthrust. Finally, the lower close after the dark
cloud cover helped confirm the market's inherent weakness.
Thus, even the most basic step of having the computer find the candle
pattern may cause problems. So, for those using a computer to pick out
the candle patterns, remember that the candle patterns should be used
as guideposts. While the ideal patterns may be relatively easy to quantify,
the less than ideal patterns are often useful trading signals that should
also be accounted for. In this context, there is a large degree of subjec­
tivity required. This is no different from standard bar chart pattern rec­
ognition.
Placing the Trade
If a candle pattern emerges, does that mean that a buy or sell signal is
automatically given? Of course not. As I previously discussed, you should
not base a trade on a candle pattern in isolation. You must first determine
the overall technical picture at the time the pattern forms.
As an example of this aspect, let us consider a shooting star. A com­
puter program that bases a sell signal on the shooting star alone would
have given an improper sell signal if that shooting star also formed a
rising window (this scenario unfolded in Exhibit 3.49 on page 98). Thus,
having a computer signal a trade just because a candle pattern emerges,
and ignoring the overall technical picture (i.e., the major trend, the price
action preceding the candle pattern, etc.), could be a mistake.
Another aspect is the concept of risk/reward discussed early in this
chapter. Just because a pattern appears does not mean that one should
place a trade on the candle signal. For example, what if there is a morning
star in gold, but the risk for the trade is $15 and your objective is also
SIS? Would a long position on that pattern be warranted? In this case,
the answer is no. Whether a trade is warranted or not is dependent on
the risk/reward parameters of the market at the time the pattern is formed.
As an example of this, in Exhibit 4.15, I show two hammers. Hammers
are potentially bullish signals, but the risk/reward aspect of each of these
148 Candles
14:27 SP IoIEEKLV BAR < 1993 CQG INC.
0- 44910
H- 44980
L"'i 44810
L- 44960V
...,"'.......... •.........................•..............···········r45000
• •. • • • l~+l,· ~t6. . . . . ~Y ij
..· · ..··..·······..········..·· · ·Target·····································~l·········l·············· ..~·y· 42500
: ~~~tll t .~,~OI~lt, ~~tlij OI~~1 't: ~ol~ :
.....l··~~tJL··l~··· 40000
~,~~~ ~~. Hammer . -mop·
L~J·t~~....=m.'... srsoo
0- 43900
H- 44980
L- 43900
C- 44960 Jan Apr Jul Oct Jan
• /1992 11993
EXHIBIT 4.15. Risk/Reward Aspects of a Trade, S & P-Weekly
hammers would not justify a long trade. In both cases, there would have
been a 15-20 point risk (based on a stop under the hammer's lows) for
a possible 20-25 point target (based on the resistance area near 425). Thus,
an automatic buy based on a computer trading program would have
worked in this example because the market rallied from both hammers.
Nonetheless, these buy signals would not have been a trade based on
sound money management principles since the risk would have been too
large for the potential reward.
When to Offset a Trade
Placing a stop may be relatively easy with a computer (some testing is
even done without stops-a very dangerous procedure and one that de­
feats the concept of a risk management approach to trading), but how is
an objective picked? One time, a trader's objective may be last week's
lows, but maybe on the next trade, the objective will be a support line,
or maybe a 50% retracement. Every trader has his or her own style, so
be sure to take this into account when merging candles and computers.
Exhibit 4.16 shows an evening star pattern and a bullish engulfing
Candles and the Overall TechnicalPicture 149
9:nlll FIBO ( 0 of 2 ) BPZ2 CAlLY BAR @ 1992 CGG INC.
0- 16948 . . .
H- 11050.......................................................................................................................... .. ..... ..... ... 20000
L-,16852 E .Loi' 169141. : r">. venlng
.- :+-144 . t I, O~ Star
~o+~+~: ,~. I•.
.... +.;.·+·~9·,~<~·q~;!lt·~;~;·~19·~·iOi;.~Q~.....!.....I~I········ .-
.................................................................................................................................................... 18000
: :: ~I~~l......~ ~ ·····..· ·· ···.. ··~ ·..···..·····..·· ·~I~f~ftA,r .. 17000
rc> 6/92 : : Bullish Pattern
Qa 16948 . . . Elf'H- 11050 ngu Ing
L- 16852 .C- 16914 'A!Ja ·S.P Oct
• 16 113 120 127 13 110 111 124 131 11 114 121 128 15
EXHIBIT 4.16. Candles and Price Targets, British Pound-December 1992
pattern. After the bullish engulfing pattern, an up leg could be expected.
However, the price target of such a rally would be based on other tech­
nical tools besides candles since candles do not usually give targets.
Based on the concept that old support becomes resistance, a trader
might have been looking for a move to the July-August support area near
$1.85. For that trader, this trade would not have been successful. How­
ever, another trader who uses Fibonacci retracements may have been
more successful since the market made a Fibonacci 38% bounce of the
entire move from the September highs to the September lows. Since the
first trader's $1.85 target was not met, he would say that the bullish
candle signal was not reliable. Yet, for the second trader, whose target
(the 38% bounce) was reached, the bullish candle signal was successful.
Thus, each trader's style must be taken into account when looking at
testing the candles' reliability.
How you trade with candlesticks will depend on your trading philos­
ophy, your risk adversity, and temperament. These are very individual
aspects. If you decide to test the candle patterns or use computers to
help you trade with candles, it should be based on trading criteria and
rules chosen by you. Only by applying the candles to your markets, with
your own trading style, can you discover whether the candles will give
you that extra edge.
150 Candles
Notes
lSakata, Goho, p. 46.
2Sakata, Goho, p. 46.
3Sakata, Goho, p. 70.
4Sakata, Goho, p. 70.
• • •• • • •• • • • • • • • •• • •• • • •• •• • • • • •• • • • • • •• • ••
PART 2
THE DISPARITY INDEX
AND NEW PRICE
CHARTS
• •• • • •• • • • • • • • • • • •• • •• •• • • •• • • • • • • • • • • •• ••
"Consider the Past and You Will Know the Future"
•• • • • • • ••• • • • • •• •• ••• • • •• • •• ••• • • • •• • •• • • •
151
INTRODUCTION..............................................................................
A Japanese book on technical analysis insightfully stated that, "The
market is a tug of war where the strategy is to overrun the enemy ter­
ritory. In a tug of war, once the balance of power is lost, one side is
pulled and the result is decided. The market often acts this way, and one
should pay attention to the balance of powers."! The new (at least in the
West) techniques addressed in Part 2 of this book will help you determine
whether it is the bulls or bears who have the ' 'balance of power."
A widely used Japanese tool is the disparity index. It is similar to
Western dual moving averages, but this technique allows for better mar­
ket timing than do the traditional Western moving average techniques.
The disparity index is addressed in Chapter 5.
The charts detailed in Chapters 6, 7, and 8 are called three-line break
charts, renko charts, and kagi charts. Of the three, the kagi is probably
the most popular, followed by the three-line break and then the renko
chart. These charts are most closely comparable to the Western point and
figure charts. However, it is not necessary to understand point and figure
charts to understand any of these Japanese charts.
Just as candle charts predate bar charts, the three-line break, renko,
and kagi charts predate point and figure charts. These charts are based
on generations of use in the Far East. A member of the Nippon Technical
Analysts Association told me that he had seen a kagi chart of the rice
market dated 1876. However, my research shows that unlike candlestick
153
154 The DisparityIndex and New Price Charts
charting, which has a rich history, there is very little historical reference
material for the three-line, renko, and kagi charting techniques. This is
probably because candles are more colorful, offer more flexibility and are
more widely used. In contrast, the three-line, renko, and kagi charts are
more rigid, offering less room for subjective interpretation, and their use
has mostly been limited to the management level of Japanese financial
firms.
As bar charts differ from point and figure charts, the three-line break,
renko, and kagi charts differ from candle charts. With candle charts, a
new candle line is added to the chart at every session, whether the price
of that session makes a new high, a new low, or is unchanged. With the
charting techniques to be addressed in the rest of this book, prices must
go to a new high or low before a line on the chart can be added. Since
the market has to go to a new high or low, I have entitled Part 2 "The
Disparity Index and New Price Charts."
Another difference between candle charts and the three-line break,
renko, and kagi charts is that these new techniques ignore time and are
dependent only on price changes. Since the market is not controlled by
time, but by price movement in these charts, the traditional Japanese
methodology of drawing them does not include time on the horizontal
axis. However, in the charts in this second half of the book, I have in­
cluded a rough measure of time on the horizontal axis to help provide
reference points for my discussions.
The three-line break, renko, and kagi charts share similarities with
one another, but there are discrete and interesting differences between
each of these charting methods. Each chart and its related techniques
will be described in detail later, in their respective chapters. For some of
these new techniques, a trader will need to choose a pre-specified reversal
amount in order to draw a reversal line. In others, it is the market action
that will provide the signal to draw a new line. While the three-line break,
renko, and kagi charts may be different from one another, they are all
powerful weapons that should be part of a trader's technical arsenal.
Some of the advantages of these new charts include:
1. Making support, resistance, and congestion areas more evident
2. Capturing the significant moves by filtering out irregular price fluc­
tuations
3. Making the market's overall trend more apparent
4. Providing a broader view of the market by compressing the price ac­
tion and offering a longer term perspective
5. Helping to determine the time to offset positions: Because the candles
do not, as a general rule, provide a price target, the reversal signals
sent out by these new techniques can be used to exit a market position
Introduction 155
6. Providing a means of technical analysis for markets that supply only
closes. This is because these techniques require only the closing prices.
Thus, mutual funds and yields on financial instruments such as T­
bonds can be analyzed using a three-line break, renko, or kagi chart.
Because three-line break, renko and kagi charts are slower to react
than candle charts, they are frequently used by longer term investors.
However, traders with shorter time frame orientations will find that these
charting tools provide a practical and powerful method to determine
trend direction. Once the trend is determined, candle signals can be used
to trade in the direction of the prevailing trend.
As will be explained in the upcoming chapters, the sensitivity to the
three-line break, renko, or kagi charts can be adjusted by changing re­
versal criteria. With each of these charts, I will show you how to adjust
the chart's sensitivity. Short-term traders may want to make the charts
more sensitive to the underlying price action. Those who are more con­
cerned about a broader market perspective may want to use a chart with
larger reversal amounts so as to get more information on a chart. This
should help to obtain a historical perspective. This brings out another
important advantage of these new charts; by changing the reversal cri­
teria for these charts, a trader can adjust the sensitivity of the charts to
his or her trading needs.
Generally, the more sensitive the chart, the greater the number of
trading signals and the greater is the possibility of whipsaws, but the
sooner it may get you into a new trend. A disadvantage of large reversal
amounts is that by the time the trend reversal is made the market will
be more distant from the top or bottom.
Choosing a reversal is subjective and dependent upon many aspects,
including the market's volatility, the price of the underlying commodity
or stock, a trader's trading style, and his or her time frame orientation
and risk tolerance. Consequently, I will not attempt to find the optimum
reversal amount, but I will let you know some of the more popular re­
versal criteria used by Japanese traders.
These new price charts are usually less flexible than are candle charts.
This is because, with candle charts, there are more graduations of a re­
versal signal. For example, a small real body after an uptrend could be
viewed as a slowing of upside momentum, but not necessarily as a price
reversal. For the new techniques in Part 2, prices either do or do not
provide reversal signals.
An important principle about trading with these new charts is that
they are usually based on closing prices, so a reversal signal is not con­
firmed until the close. By that time, the reversal amount may well be
exceeded. For example, if the reversal amount is $2, the market would
156 The Disparity Index and New Price Charts
have to close either higher or lower by $2, but by the time the market
closes, it could be $4 higher or lower. As a result, a trader could lose $2
of a potential move. Some Japanese traders circumvent this problem by
initiating a light position if the reversal amount is met or exceeded on an
intra-session basis. If the market then closes by the reversal amount, they
can either add more at the close or wait for a correction to add more. If
the market fails to confirm the reversal by the close, the traders would
offset the light position they had earlier added.
Most commonly the closing price of the day or week is used to con­
struct the three-line break, renko, or kagi charts. Because of this, the
focus of Chapters 6 through 8 will be on daily and weekly charts. How­
ever, some traders in Japan use intra-day kagi charts (three-line break or
renko charts are not normally used on an intra-day basis-perhaps these
charts have been less successful than intra-day kagi charts). Thus, for
traders who have the time and the data, kagi charts can be constructed
on an intra-day basis using tick-by-tick data.
Chapter 6 will discuss the three-line break chart, Chapter 7 the renko
chart, and Chapter 8 the kagi chart. Each chapter will be segmented the
same way. Each of these three chapters will begin with an Overview to
give a flavor of the technique. Do not worry that if, after the overview,
you do not have a grasp of the technique. That will come with each
chapter's next section-Construction. This is where I provide a step-by­
step written and visual guide to building the chart.
After completing the section on constructing the chart, you should
have a full understanding of the underlying technique. The Trading Tech­
niques section, at the conclusion of each chapter, will then show you the
more popular trading techniques for that charting method. At the ends
of Chapters 6, 7, and 8, I have supplied the data necessary for you to
draw practice three-line break, renko, and kagi charts. The answer charts
are provided on the pages following each of these sessions.
There are many ways to trade with these new charts. While I will
focus on some of the more popular trading techniques used in Japan,
these are by no means all of them. With almost every Japanese trader to
whom I spoke, or every article or book that I had translated, I came away
with a new trading technique. This tells me that the three-line break,
renko, and kagi charts are limited only by your trading imagination.
Consequently, my goal in Part 2 is to help you build a solid foundation
upon which the scaffolding of your own ideas can be built.
Note
lOyama, Kenji, p. 52.
CHAPTER 5
HOW THE JAPANESE USE
MOVING AVERAGES..............................................................................
"Money Grows on the Tree of Patience"
In Japan, as in the West, moving averages are used as a valuable trading
tool. Some of Japan's moving averages techniques include golden and
dead crosses, the disparity index, and the moving average divergence.
Based on my work and discussions with Japanese traders, it appears that
the most popular moving averages are the 5-, 9-, or 25-day averages for
shorter term traders, and for longer term traders, the 13-, 26-week or the
75- and 200-day moving averages. However, just as in the West, many
Japanese traders have their favorite moving averages.
THE GOLDEN AND DEAD CROSS
The Japanese use dual moving averages in which they compare short­
and long-term averages. For example, they will compare the 13- week
and 26-week moving averages. As shown in Exhibit 5.1, if a shorter term
moving average crosses over the longer term moving average, it is viewed
as a bullish sign. The Japanese call such a crossover a golden cross. A dead
cross is a bearish indication that occurs when a short-term moving average
crosses under the longer term moving average.
In Exhibit 5.2, the 26-week moving average is shown as a solid line,
and the 13-week moving average as a dashed line. When the shorter term
moving average moved under the longer term average in July 1992 it
157
158 The Disparity Index and New Price Charts
------ Short-term Moving Average
17
16
15
H
13
12
+1
10
39
38
37
36
35
31
33
32
31
30
29
28
27
26
l,
I
r
, 26WeekMA,
19 2 F M ~ M J J ~ S 0
;'
Golden ;/;
"'7'-, °1//
...... ~-----....._-----------
Dead
Cross
created a bearish dead cross. In November 1992, the 13-week moving
average went above the 26-week moving average, thus completing a bul­
lish golden cross. Observe how the hanging man session in May 1993
(which, during the next session, became part of a bearish engulfing pat­
tern) hinted at a correction, as did the dead cross a few session earlier.
DISNEY - WEEKLY
EXHIBIT 5.1. Golden and Dead Cross Long-term Moving Average
17
16
+5
H
13
12
11
10
39
38
37
36
35
3+
33
32
31
30
29
28
27
26
'--......-...----.----.-.--.....---..---.r---r----r---..-.......---.--......-...---.---.--.--......--r----.---l
'91
MetaStock by EaUIS Int'l
EXHIBIT 5.2. Golden and Dead Crosses, Disney-Weekly
How the Japanese Use Moving Averages 159
THE DISPARITY INDEX
The disparity index (or disparity ratio), compares, as a percentage, the
latest close to a chosen moving average. For example, when the 13-week
disparity index is -25%, it means that the market, based on the close, is
25% under the 13-week moving average. A 200-day disparity index of
+12% means that the current close is 12% above the 200-day moving
average.
The Japanese will say, for example, that, "the separation between the
price and the 13-week moving average expanded to 50%" or "that the
market was an unusual 31% below its 13-week moving average." These
are references to the disparity index in which the current price is com­
pared to, in both of these cases, the 13-week moving average.
Exhibit 5.3 shows an example using a 9-day disparity index. Looking
at that exhibit:
Area 1. When the disparity index is at 0 (shown at 1), it means that
today's price is the same as the chosen moving average (in this
case, the 9-day moving average).
Area 2. When the disparity line is under 0, it means that today's price
is a percentage under the chosen moving average. At period 2,
for instance, the current close is 12% below the 9-day moving
average.
Area 3. When the disparity line is above 0, it means that today's price
is a certain percentage above the chosen moving average. For
instance, at point 3 in Exhibit 5.3, today's price is 15% above the
9-day moving average.
Trading with the Disparity Index
In much of the material I had translated there were often references that
the market should be at a high- or low-price level before acting on a
------+-------- +15
+10
+5
------------- 0
-5
-10
------='--------- -15 EXHIBIT 5.3. The Disparity Index
160 The DisparityIndex and New Price Charts
candlestick reversal pattern. An example: "The probability is high that
at a low-price level, a harami cross is a signal that the bottom is near and
a harami cross at a high-price level is a signal that the market is close to
a top."l Another example: "If the koma (this is the Japanese term for a
spinning top or a small real body candle) appears after some indication
that the market is at a low price, then to an extent, one can buy some
and feel at ease.' ,2
Of course, the question arises as to what constitutes a high- or low­
price area. Some traders have their own methodology to determine
whether the market is at a high or low price. They may, for example,
consider it at a low area if the market is near a major support area, or if
it is at a 50% retracement area. Other traders may gauge high or low
levels on the relative strength index or stochastics, or on an Elliott wave
count.
A method used by some Japanese to determine whether the market
is at a high- or low-price is by using the disparity index. This is because
the disparity index is an effective mechanism to show if the market is
oversold or overbought. Remember that an oversold environment un­
folds when prices descend too quickly. In theory, the more oversold the
market, the more vulnerable it becomes to a bounce. An overbought
market is when prices ascend too far too fast, thus making the market
susceptible to a correction. In this regard, a high disparity index reading
can show that the market is overbought and a low disparity index could
reflect an oversold market.
Exhibit 5.4 typifies how the disparity index can offer value-added
analysis to a candle chart. Note than an oversold or overbought indication
based on the disparity index will depend on the individual market and
the chosen disparity index. For this stock, when the 13-week disparity
index reached the +10% area, the market became overbought. At a dis­
parity index near -10%, the market becomes oversold. By using this
extra information imparted by the disparity ratio in Exhibit 5.4, we can
get more confirmation of candle signals. Specifically:
1. As touched upon in Chapter 2, a doji becomes a more viable signal
if it appears in an oversold or overbought market environment. In
this case, the doji at 1 emerged at a time when the market was
oversold (as gauged by the disparity index). This hinted that Delta
was ripe for a bounce or sideways action to ease the market's over­
sold condition. The long white candle after the doji helped confirm
the bullish implications.
2. At time period 2, the market showed signs of overheating, as re­
flected by the high disparity index. During the same period, a series
How the Japanese Use Moving Averages 161
DELTA-WEEKLY
50
55
65
70
75
60
10
o
-10
1 0I-------,~--,---------___,.;;_,__----..,..,..~r__--___f
o
-1 0 j....:-~----~:>.£-..----Jl--~,J...:..---_\:,'!,L------.f_¥+_---_+_,._J_-~
19 1 0 19 2 r M A M J J A SON 0 19 3r M A M J J A
70
MetaStock by EQUIS Int'l
EXHIBIT 5.4. The Disparity Index as Overbought/Oversold Indicator, Delta-Weekly
and 13-Week Disparity Index
of long upper shadow candles demonstrated that the bears were
aggressively dragging down prices from the $75 area.
3. The candle at session 3, with its long upper and lower shadow, was
a high-wave candle. This candle was also the second session of a
harami pattern. Both of these were signs that the market was losing
its prior downward and directional bias. These candle patterns co­
incided with a low disparity index. This combination of candle signals
and the oversold disparity index reading implied that either a bounce
or sideways activity could be expected. An oversold condition can be
relieved in one of two ways: either by a sharp bounce or by sideways
action (the Japanese call sideways price activity box action since prices
look like they are locked in a box). After this harami, the market
traded laterally for two months. By this "box action," the disparity
index moved off its low reading. This showed that the market was
no longer oversold. As a result of not being oversold, the market
162 The DisparityIndex and New Price Charts
once again became vulnerable to another move lower. (Note the
hanging man before the renewed price decline.)
4. Another doji appeared at the same time as the 13-week disparity
index was near -10%. This should tell a trader that the market was
in an oversold environment that should be closely monitored-es­
pecially because of the doji. The tall white candle on the session after
the doji completed a morning doji star pattern.
5. The disparity index moving towards an overbought condition and a
dark cloud cover warned that the upside drive was losing force.
6. This is a good example of how the disparity index can help avoid
buying in a market that is vulnerable to a correction. A tall white
candle at 6 implied a stronger market lay ahead. However, a +10%
disparity index reading at that time showed that prices had ascended
too far too fast (i.e., became overbought). The disparity index thus
provided a warning sign not to buy the market. It turns out that
candle 6 completed a last engulfing top pattern (in which a white
candle envelops a black candle in an uptrend) that was confirmed by
the next session's weaker close.
7., 8. These black real bodies, especially the long black body at 8, nor­
mally imply continued weakness. But the oversold nature of the mar­
ket, as measured by the disparity index, hinted that further down
moves were unlikely. Also, the white candle after the black candle
at 7 had a long lower shadow. This also offset some of the bearishness
of the black candle.
9. A classic combination of an overheated market (based on the elevated
disparity index) and a bearish candle pattern (the bearish engulfing
pattern). The fact that this bearish engulfing pattern appeared at the
resistance area from October 1992 (at 6) further reinforced the outlook
that Delta was at an important technical juncture.
10. Here we see how an oversold market joined with a bullish candle
signal (the hammer at 10) strongly hinted of higher prices to come.
In this chart, the 13-week disparity index gave extreme readings in
the ±10% area. However, the markets you follow will probably have
different disparity zones that act as an overbought or oversold reading,
so it pays to experiment.
As discussed above, the disparity index is a useful tool to weigh
whether the market is overbought or oversold. As shown in Exhibit 5.5,
the +15% and -15% readings on the 13-period disparity index reflect
times when this market becomes overbought and oversold. Overbought
How the Japanese Use Moving Averages 163
S & P DEC 1993AND 13PERIODDISPARTYINDEX
3
2
1
o
-1
-2
470
465
460
455
450
445
440
435
F
NOVOCT
D
SEPAUG
B
JULJUN
3
21---Ir-+l:--r---------------,,:-----------..:--------t
1
o
-1-2 I---------:....------------:..------J£-------l
470
465
460
455
450
445
440
435
'-------,------,------,------.,-------,-----,------'
J 93
readings occurred at time frames A, C, and E, while oversold indications
arrived at time frames B, D, and F. However, in between these over­
bought and oversold levels, the disparity index could be used as a tool
of trend determination. In this context, while the disparity index is ex­
panding, it conveys a bull trend. If the disparity index declines, it echoes
a bear trend. In Exhibit 5.5, note that between the overbought reading
at A and the oversold reading at B, the index was in a downtrend. This
confirmed that the price trend was also down. This bearish confirmation
with a falling disparity index came from C to D and from E to F. Bull
trends were corroborated via an ascending disparity index from B to C
and from D to E.
Exhibit 5.6 shows another use for the disparity index, that of a tool
to monitor divergence. Note the downward sloping dashed line on the
disparity index connecting the peaks at A and B. At the same time the
disparity index was at B, prices had made a new high for the move-yet
MetaStock by EQUIS Int'J
EXHIBIT 5.5. The Disparity Index as a Trend Indicator, 5 & P December 1993, and
13-Day Disparity Index
164 The DisparityIndex and New Price Charts
Reuters Graphics
EXHIBIT 5.6. The Disparity Index and Divergence, Deutsche Mark-13-Day
Disparity Index, Daily Spot
the disparity index at B was lower than it was at A. This created a bearish
negative divergence in which prices reached a new high and the disparity
index did not.
THE DIVERGENCE INDEX
The Japanese also have a moving average oscillator called the divergence
index. The name is derived from the fact that this technique measures
how far the price diverges from the chosen moving average. The diver­
gence is calculated by taking the current price and dividing it by the
chosen moving average. Thus, a 13-day divergence of 102% would mean
that the close today is 102% of the 13-day moving average. A 200-day
divergence of 97% would mean that today's price is 97% of the 200-day
moving average.
The divergence is the same as the disparity index; it is just scaled
How the Japanese Use Moving Averages 165
EXHIBIT5.7. 200-Day Divergence and Disparity Index
o
5
15
10
-5
115
110
105
100
95
UNION PACIFIC
UNION PACIFIC
200 Day Divergence
MetaStock by EQUIS Int'I
200 Day Disparity Index
J 92 JUL FlUG SEP OCT NOU DEC J 93 FEB MFIR FlPR MAY JUN JUL FlUG SEP OCT
)92 JUL FlUG SEP OCT NOU DEC J 93 FEB MAR FlPR MFlY JUN JUL AUG SEP OCT
5
o
10
-5
15
115
110
105
100
95
differently. For example, a 13-day divergence of 102% means that the
market is 2% above the 13-day moving average. A 13-day disparity read­
ing of +2% also means that the market is 2% above the 13-day moving
average. In other words, a divergence of 102% is the same as the disparity
index being +2%. A divergence of 93% has the same implications as a
-7% disparity index.
Exhibit 5.7 shows the disparity index and the divergence indicator on
the same stock for the same time period. Note that the lines are the same;
it is just the way the vertical scale reads that is different. Thus, all the
techniques used for the disparity index would be the same as those used
for the divergence index.
Just as many computer system traders experiment with moving av­
erages, so you may want to consider experimenting with divergence. As
an example of this, I have the following study done in the 1980s by the
Japanese to statistically test the Nikkei with its divergence.:'
166 The DisparityIndex and New Price Charts
Notes
All the values below are within 2 standard deviations (95% probabil­
ity):
Divergence in a falling
market:
25-day divergence 96-101%
75-day divergence 93-100%
200-day divergence 90-99%
Divergence in a rising market:
25-day divergence 99-104%
75-day divergence 100-107%
200-day divergence 102-110%
This study shows that, for example, using the 200-day divergence,
when the Nikkei is rising, there is a 95% chance that the divergence will
be between 102% and 110%. This would mean that if the 200-day diver­
gence moves above 110%, it is considered excessive and there is increased
likelihood that the market is vulnerable to a correction. This concept could
be used as a time to move out of long positions in the belief that the
market is reaching the high end of its current bull leg.
In this discussion, remember that high divergence does not necessar­
ily mean that prices will reverse. It is just that the market may be in the
throes of speculative fever or panic selling (in the case of low value di­
vergences), and the likelihood of the move continuing in the same di­
rection decreases as divergence becomes more extreme.
lHoshi, Kazutaka, p. 107.
2Ishii, Katsutoshi, p. 52.
3Analysisof Stock Price in Japan. Tokyo, Japan: Nippon Technical Analysts Association 1986, pg.
104.
CHAPTER 6
THREE-LINE BREAK CHARTS..............................................................................
r
"Weigh the Situation, Then Move"
A Japanese trader described the three-line break chart as a "more subtle
form of point and figure charts where reversals are decided by the market
and not by arbitrary rules. That means we can gear it to the strength and
dynamism of the market. "I
As shown in Exhibit 6.1, the three-line break chart looks like a series
of white and black blocks of varying heights. A new block is in a separate
column. Each of these blocks is called a line. Using the closing price, a
new white line is added if the previous high is exceeded and a new black
line is drawn if the market reaches a new low for the move. If there is
neither a new high nor a low, nothing is drawn.
If a rally (sell-off) is powerful enough to form three consecutive white
lines (three black lines), then the low of the last three white lines (the
high of the last three black lines) has to be exceeded before the opposite
color line is drawn (this procedure is explained in detail later in this
section). The term "three-line break" comes from the fact that the market
has to "break" above (or below) the prior three lines before a new op­
posite color line is drawn. Here again, as discussed in my first book, we
see the importance of the number "three" in Japanese technicals.
A major advantage of the three-line break chart is that there is no
arbitrary fixed reversal amount. It is the market's action that will give the
indication of a reversal.
Other names for the three-line break chart include:
1. three-step new price;
2. new price three-line break;
167
168 The DisparityIndex and New Price Charts
Session C\osin~ Ptic.e Session C\osin~ Ptic.e
CONSTRUCTION OF THE THREE-LINE BREAK CHART
165­
168t
171t
173t
169­
177t
180t
176­
170H
175­
179­
173­
170­
170­
168~
165~
171­
175­
179tt
175-
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
135
132~
128~
133­
130­
130­
132­
134­
139t
137­
145t
158t
147­
143­
150­
149­
160t
164t
167t
156H
•
Legend
t -New high: white line drawn.
!-New low: black line drawn.
(-)-Price within prior range: no line drawn.
tt-White: turnaround line.
H-Black: turnaround line.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
TABLE 6.1 Prices for the Three-Line Break Chart
Displayed in Exhibit 6.1
OUR EXAMPLE: The base price is
135.
3. surpassing three lines;
4. the three-line turnaround method; and
5. new price three-step bars.
For the following explanation detailing construction of the three-line break
chart, I use the data-in Table 6.1. This data is used to construct the three­
line break chart shown in Exhibit 6.1.
The three-line break chart is based on closing prices, The price at
which the chart is started is called the base price.
EXHIBIT6.1. Example of a Three-line Break Chart Based on Prices from Table 6.1.
(Figures in Parentheses Refer to Session Number.)
r
(27) 180
(39) 179
(26) 177
(20) 156
Three-LineBreak Charts 169
(24) 173
(23) 171
(22) 168
(19) 167
(17) 160
(12) 158
(11) 145
180
170
(3) 128
160
150
140
(1) 135
I
(21) 132
130
170 The DisparityIndex and New Price Charts
Drawing the second line: Compare today's price to the high and low of
the first line. A second line is drawn only when today's price exceeds
the range of the first line.
0- Today's price
- Base price
1- Base price
- Today's price
1- 135 (Base price)
-132
I...· Black or white
Prior IOW_"
- New low
,:=
NeWhi9h
Prior high
Black or white
Rule 4. If today's price moves
above the top of the first line, shift
over a column to the right and
draw a new white line from the
prior high (in this case 135) up to
the new high price.
Rule 6. If the price holds within
the range of the first line, nothing
is drawn. Thus, in our example, if
the price is between 135 and 132,
no new line is drawn.
Rule 5. If the price is lower than
the low of the first line, move a col­
umn to the right and draw a new
black line down from the prior low
(in this case 132) to the new low
price.
or
or
or
or
Rule 2. If today's price is lower
than the base price, draw a black
line from the base price to the new
low price.
OUR EXAMPLE: From Table 6.1,
during session 2, the market closed
at 132. This was lower than the
base price of 135. Thus, a black line
is drawn from 135 to 132.
Rule 3. If today's price is un­
changed from the base, do not
draw a line.
Drawing the first line: Compare today's price to the base price.
Rule 1. If today's price is higher
than the base price, draw a white
line from the base price to the new
high price.
Three-LineBreak Charts 171
Drawing the third line: Compare today's price to the highest high and
the lowest low of the prior two lines.
The concept here is the same as that of determining when to draw
the second line. Only when the price moves to a new high or a new low
for the move is a white or black line drawn. In our example, the market
would have to go under 128 for a black line or above 135 for a white line.
..........rf- New high
Prior high IT'
135'132
128
/01
Prior low "- New low
/Newhigh
~~hl~--JJ
Note: Prices should exceed the prior
high or low-not just touch the
prior high or low-to draw a new
line.
or
Rule 8. If today's price is lower
than the low of the prior lines (i.e.,
makes a new low), shift a column
to the right and draw a new black
line down to the new low price.
or
Rule 7. If the market makes a new
high by exceeding the high of the
prior lines, shift a column to the
right and draw a new white line up
to the new high. .
OUR EXAMPLE: Since the range of
the first line is 135-132, the market
would either have to move under
132 or above 135 for us to draw a
new line. Session 3, at a price of
128, sets a new low. As a result,
we make a new black line one col­
umn to the right. This line goes
from the prior low of 132 to the new
low of 128.
Rule 9. If prices are in the range of
the first two lines, nothing is
drawn. In this example, as long as
the price remains between 128 and
135 (the prior low and high), we do
not draw a line.
172 The DisparityIndex and New Price Charts
3 consecutive white lines
139
145
139
145
158
139
(Prior high) 135
132
OUR EXAMPLE: In session 4, the
price was 133. Since this was
within the price range of the prior
two lines (128-135), there is no new
line drawn. The next time a line is
drawn is session 9, when prices
moved to a new high to 139. Since
this was above the prior high (at
135), we shift a column to the right
and a new white line is drawn from
the top of the prior line up to 139.
The new range of lines is now from
a low of 128 to a high of 139.
The next price outside of this 128­
139 range is at price 11 at 145. At
that time, a white line is drawn
from the prior 139 high to the new
high at 145. We now have two con­
secutive white lines. The new
range is 128-145.
At session 12, with the price at 158,
a new high is made. So, on the next
column we draw a white line from
145 to 158. We now have three suc­
cessive white lines. As shown in
the following discussion, this is an
important occurrence.
Drawing a line after three consecutive white or black lines: If there are
three successive white or black lines, it confirms a trend (a series of three
white lines confirms a bull trend; three black lines confirm a bear trend).
Remember that this technique is called the three-linebreak. Its name is
derived from the fact that today's price must exceed the low of the three
successive white lines, or the high of the three consecutive black lines, to
get a reversal line.
For the rest of this discussion, see Table 6.1 and Exhibit 6.1.
By session 12 there are three consecutive white lines. As a result, the
market has to move under the low of the third white line (at 132) to draw
a black turnaround line. However, white lines continue to be drawn as
long as a new high is made (that is, if prices move above 158). Thus, in
our example, before a new line can be built, the market must either move
under 132 (for a black line) or above 158 (for a white line).
The next price that exceeded our 132-158 range was price 17 at 160,
a new high. Thus, a new white line is drawn from 158 to 160. Now, the
bottom of the last three white lines is 139. Thus, the new price range to
monitor is below 139 to get a black line and above 160 to draw a white
line.
Price 18 is a new high, as is price 19. So, two new white lines are
added. When we get to price 19 at 167, the low of the third white line is
then 158. Thus, our price range is either under 158 for a black turnaround
line or above 167 for a new white line.
Price 20 is 156. This is under the lowest low of the preceding three
white lines (at 158), so we draw a black turnaround line from the bottom
of the top white line down to the new low price at 156. Because there
Black
- turnaround
line
White
turnaround
line
Three-LineBreak Charts 173
When this •
is broken draw
a black turnaround
line
When this high ­
is exceeded a
new white line
can be drawn
When this low -
is exceeded draw
a new black line
When this is ­
exceeded draw
a white turnaround
line
Rule 10. If there are three consec­
utive white lines, a new white line
can be drawn whenever a new high
is made (even if this high is as little
as one tick). However, the price
must move under the lowest price
of the last three consecutive white
lines to draw a black reversal line.
Such a black reversal line is called
a blackturnaround line. A black turn­
around line is drawn from the bot­
tom of the highest white line to the
new low price.
Rule 11. If there are three consec­
utive black lines, a new black line
can be drawn with any new low.
However, if there are three consec­
utive black lines the price must ex­
ceed the high of the prior three
black lines to draw a white turn­
around line. A white turnaround
line is drawn from the top of the
lowest black line to the new high
price.
174 The DisparityIndex and New Price Charts
are not three white consecutive white lines (since the black line ap­
peared), a new white line is added if a new high or low for the move is
made.
The new range to exceed is the prior high at 167 and the recent low
at 156. Price 22 makes a new high at 168. As a result, we add another
white line. This white line starts at the top of the prior black line and
goes up to the new high at 168. New highs are made (and new white
lines are added for each higher session) up until session 27 at a price of
180.
At price 29 at 170, the market moved under the low of the third prior
white line (at 171), so a black turnaround line is drawn from the bottom
of the top white line down to 170. Our new range is 170-180. The next
time prices move outside this range is at session 35, when the market
moved down to 168. At session 36 there is another new low at 165­
hence another black line. We now have three consecutive black lines.
Because of this, we can only draw a white line if the price exceeds the
high of the three previous black lines. In our example, this price would
be 177. As a result, our new price range is above 177 for a new white
turnaround line or under 165 for a new black line. At price 39 at 179, a
white turnaround line is drawn up to 179.
To summarize the method: If there are one or two black or white
lines, then a new line is added if the market reaches a new high or low.
However, if there are three consecutive white lines, the market must
move under the low of these white lines to draw a black turnaround line.
If there are three consecutive black lines, the high of these lines must be
exceeded to draw a white turnaround line.
TRADING TECHNIQUES WITH THE THREE-LINE
BREAK CHART
White and Black Lines as Buy and Sell Signals
A series of alternating white and black lines, as shown in Exhibit 6.2(A),
reflects a trendless market. However, once three consecutive white or
black lines appear, as displayed in Exhibit 6.2(B), the market is in a trend­
ing mode. A basic trend reversal signal is produced when a turnaround
line moves under three consecutive white lines or above three consecu­
tive black lines. This is shown in Exhibit 6.2(C).
The most basic method of using the three-line break is buying on a
white line and selling on a black line. Remember that if there are three
consecutive white (black) lines, the market has to move under (above)
the low (high) of these three lines for a black (white) line to be con-
EXHIBIT6.2. (A) Alternating White
and Black Line. (B) Three Consecutive
Same-Color Lines. (C) Turnaround
Lines.
White turnaround
/
line ends prior
bear trend
Confirms bear
"---trend
(B)
Trend Confirmation
Three consecutive white
or black lines
1
Confirms bull
/trend
(C)
Trend reversal with
three consecutive white
or black lines
Black turnaround
/
line ends prior
bull trend
Low
(A)
Trendless
Alternating white
and black lines
structed. Exhibit 6.3 shows buy and sell signals based on these criteria.
As can be seen from this example, some reversal signals in the three-line
break chart are sent well after the new trend has started. However, many
traders are comfortable with this insofar as they believe that it is safer to
be in for the major part of the trend rather than trying to pick a top or
bottom. The three-line break tries to accomplish this.
The three-line break chart requires a close to confirm a turnaround
line. However, by the time this confirmation is completed, the market
may have moved substantially away from where there may have been
an attractive buy or sell. A means around this problem is to use an intra­
session reversal signal as the time to lightly buy or sell. Then, if desired,
add more to the position if the turnaround line is confirmed. For example,
looking at Exhibit 6.3, BI became a turnaround line once it closed above
$31 (the high of the three prior black lines). However, by the time the
turnaround line was corroborated, the market had closed near $33. A
trader could have bought lightly on an intra-day basis on the break above
$31 and then added on the close near $33. Of course, if the market had
failed to close above $31, then there would have been no turnaround line
formed. In such a scenario, the prudent action would be for the intra-
Three-LineBreak Charts 175
176 The DisparityIndex and New Price Charts
'92
B =Buy Signal
S = Sell Signal
25
50
35
55
to
t5
30
day buyer to liquidate the long he or she had bought earlier that session.
For traders who prefer to wait for the validation of a turnaround line
formed on a close before initiating any long position, they could wait for
such a confirmation and then, over the next few sessions, hope for a
correction that would favor a buy.
Three-Line Break Charts and Candle Charts
In Chapter 4, I examined the value of monitoring the market's prevailing
trend when using the candles. Since the three-line break chart defines
whether the market is in a bull or bear trend, it can be employed as an
adjunctto candle charts. The three-line break chart can help define the
prevailing trend, and the candles can be used as an entry mechanism to
trade in the direction of the prevailing trend. For example, if there are
three white consecutive lines, the major trend (as defined by the three­
line break) is up. Based on this, bullish candle signals could be used as
a buy signal, and bearish candle signals within this bull trend could be
55
FORD- WEEKLY3-L1NE BREAKCHART
25
35
50
to
t5
30
MetaStock by EOUIS Int'l
EXHIBIT6.3. White and Black Lines as Buy and Sell Signals, Ford-Weekly
Three-LineBreak Charts 177
29.5
29.0
28.5
28.0
27.5 (A)
27.0
26.5
26.0
25.5
30. 0
29.5
29.0
28.5
28.0 (B)
27.5
27. 0
26.5
26.0
25.5
25.0
NI SON I BEYOND
o27
OCT
2013
Black Turnaround Line
MetaStock by EQUIS Int'l
L1LCO (CANDLE CHART)
SEP
L1LCO (THREE-LINE BREAK)
2316
AUG
09
29.5
29.,{J
28. 5
28.0
27.5
27.0
26.5
26. 0
25.5
used to cover shorts. Since candles rarely help set price targets, a white
or black turnaround line can also be used as a signal to exit a trade
originally based on a candle signal.
In Exhibit 6.4(A), a three-line break chart shows that a black turn­
around line occurred after the price touched $29.50 (the candle chart in
Exhibit 6.4(B) shows that there was another indication of a top with a
bearish engulfing pattern). The black turnaround line meant that the
trend had turned down. Based on the theory that a new position should
be placed in the direction of the major trend, traders should look for a
candle signal as a time to go short in the bear trend. However, bullish
candle signals in this bear market should either be ignored or used to
cover shorts.
In this case, I will show how to use the three-line break chart in Exhibit
6.4(A) to fine tune trading with the candle chart in Exhibit 6.4(B).
In the candle chart in Exhibit 6.4(B), a hammer appeared on Septem­
ber 3. The fact that the hammer came after a falling window was an
indication that the hammer should not have been a buy signal. A few
EXHIBIT 6.4(A). Three-Line Break Chart, Lileo-Daily
EXHIBIT 6.4(B). Candle Chart, Lileo-Daily
++
t3
1-2
t1
to
39
38
37
36
35
31­
33
32
31
30
29
28
27
S 0 0
0-
J r
MetaStock by EaUIS lnt'l
o
CD and 0 -Bear Market
®-Bull Market Starts
J A SON
GM - WEEKLY THREE-LINE BREAK
days after the hammer (on September 8), the market had weakened
enough to form the black turnaround line shown in Exhibit 6.4(A). At
that time, with a bear trend confirmed via the three-line break chart, the
rally into the window's resistance area a few days later could be used as
a selling opportunity.
Three-Line Break Charts and Trend
Exhibit 6.5(A) is a three-line break chart and Exhibit 6.5(B) is a candle
chart. Using these Exhibits, I will show how the insights about the overall
trend provided by the three-line break charts refine trading based on
candle signals.
From Exhibit 6.5(A), the trend turned bearish beginning at the black
turnaround line of 1 (which formed the first week of August). It is inter­
esting that before this black turnaround line appeared, the candle charts
gave a hint of a top with the hanging man line in June. Throughout the
t1-
t3
1-2
1-1
to
39
38
37
36
35
31­
33
32
31
30
29
28
27 '-r----..~""1"""""""<.........---...._-....____._- __........_..........--__._........____._-------J
EXHIBIT6.5(A). Three-Line Break Chart, GM-Weekly
178 The DisparityIndex and New Price Charts
Three-LineBreak Charts 179
GM - WEEKLY CANDLE CHART
+5
+++3
+2
+1
+0
39
38
37
36
35
3+
33
32
31
30
29
28
27
26
Bullish
Engulfing
Pattem
Hanging Man
Support Area
+5 Harami
~ ~I~" Wam'", mTop 9!1~~"' Upper Shadow
39 H I candte ~I
~ II ~.~ !~~:~ )I~~""~
~ S"wortm~'l I~!j! Mea %~~D_,~ljl I ~!
30
29
28
27
26
J 91 JUN JUL ~UG SEP OCT t-.UJ OCC J 92 rEB mR ~PR n~Y JUN JUL ~ SEP OCT ~ DEC
EXHIBIT 6.5(B). Candle Chart, GM-Weekly
MetaStock by EQUIS Int'l
rest of the year, the market remained in a bear mode, as shown by the
continuous series of black lines in the three-line break chart. In this en­
vironment, candle signals to sell short should be acted upon since there
was a prevailing downward trend. A long white candle during this period
gave a temporary respite to the selloff, but once the support area at the
bottom of this white candle was broken, it was a signal for lower prices.
At white turnaround line 2, the market transformed into a bull mode.
This means that bullish candle signals should be used as a buying op­
portunity. The bull trend lasted from January until the black turnaround
line in August. During this bull mode, observe how the market held
support near the midpoint of the tall white real bodies. February's high­
wave candle was an indication that the prior uptrend was in transition.
However, with the major trend still higher, and the long white candle
as support, we could view sell-offs after the high-wave candle as correc­
tions in a bull trend. Another tall white candle in April became support
and provided a base for another upleg.
Hints of a bearish turnaround came with the harami, the hanging
180 The DisparityIndex and New Price Charts
man, and the long upper shadow candles during the summer of 1992,
but a bear trend was not confirmed with the three-line break chart until
the black turnaround line in August at line 3. From that point, we look
for bearish candle signals to sell the market. Note the doji in August in
Exhibit 6.5(B). This candle could be the warning of a trend reversal.
However, this doji appeared during a downtrend (as defined by the three­
line break), and should not be used as a signal to buy. A few weeks later,
a falling window appeared. This was a bearish signal in a bear trend;
thus, a sell was in order.
A bullish engulfing pattern on the candle chart and a white turn­
around line on the three-line break chart reflected that a new bull trend
had begun.
The new charts that I discuss in this and the next two chapters use
closing prices. Consequently, by allowing traders to use more than a line
chart, traders who use these markets are now given an extra dimension
of analysis. The three-line chart of bond yields in Exhibit 6.6 is based on
7.0
6.0
6.5
B.O
7.0
7.5
Lower yields =Higher Prices.
Buy signals given with black
turnaround lines.
Higher yields = Lower Prices.
Sell signals given with
white turnaround lines
B.O
30-YEAR CASH BOND YIELD - THREE-LINE BREAK
6.5
7.5
6.0
MetaStock by EaUIS Int'l
EXHIBIT6.6. Using Three-Line Break Charts in Markets with Only Closing Prices,
3O-YearCash Bond Yield-Weekly Close Only
Three-LineBreak Charts 181
closing price only. Yet, notice all the information this chart provides as
it signals reversals with the emergence of a white or black turnaround
line. Remember that when looking at three-line break charts in terms of
yield, the black lines are bullish since lower yields translate to higher
prices. This is why the buy signals on the chart are given with the black
turnaround line and sell signals on the white turnaround lines (a white
turnaround line means higher yields and lower prices).
EXHIBIT6.7. Two- and
Four-Line Breaks
White
/
turnaround
line
(B)
Four-Line Break
Must exceed the high of
four consecutive black lines
White
/
turnaround
line
(A)
Two-Line Break
Must exceed the high of
two consecutive
black lines
Other Break Charts
Japanese traders often adjust the sensitivity 'of the three-line break chart
by changing the number of lines that the market has to break before a
turnaround line is drawn. The three-line break requires the breaking of
the last three white or black lines to get a reversal. As displayed in Exhibit
6.7(A), we see that a two-line break follows the same concept, except
that it uses two white or black lines as its reversal criterion. Such a chart
is termed a two-line break chart. As displayed in Exhibit 6.7(B), for a
four-line break chart, the last four consecutive and same color lines have
to be exceeded for a new turnaround line to be drawn.
Shorter time frame traders would usually use shorter reversal amounts
(such as a two- or three-line break). Traders and investors who are look­
ing for major moves and are long-term oriented could use the five- or
even ten-line breaks. The most popular break chart in Japan is the three­
line break chart; that is why my examples are based on the three-line
break chart. However, all the trading tools used in the three-line break
charts can be applied in the same way to any other break chart.
In Exhibit 6.3, shown earlier in this chapter, I highlighted the buy and
sell signals for Ford using a three-line break chart. Using the same date
as on Exhibit 6.3, I made a two-line break chart (Exhibit 6.8) and a five­
line break chart (Exhibit 6.9). Note how the frequency of buy and sell
182 The DisparityIndex and New Price Charts
FORD- WEEKLYTWO-LINEBREAKCHART
25
55
to
t5
35
30
50
)92
Extra Confirmation of a Trend Reversal
Some Japanese traders prefer waiting for an extra confirmation of a trend
reversal, even after a turnaround line. They get this confirmation by
signals increases with the two-line break charts as compared to the three­
line or the five-line break charts. This is because the fewer the number
of lines that have to be exceeded to get a turnaround line, the greater the
sensitivity of the chart. Consequently, a two-line break is more sensitive
and will be more volatile than a three-line break chart. A five-line break
chart will be less sensitive and have fewer reversals than a three-line
break.
Exceeding one, two, or three lines may be compared to using a shorter
term moving average. Using the three- to five-line break charts can match
the intermediate term moving average, while the ten-line break is like a
long-term moving average. Which of these break criteria work best is
found through trial and error. It is similar to finding a moving average
that works best in your markets.
)91
B =Buy Signal
S =Sell Signal
25
t5
to
35
30
50
55
MetaStock by EaUIS Int'l
EXHIBIT 6.8. Two-Line Break Chart, Ford-Weekly
FORD - WEEKLY FIVE-LINE BREAK CHART
EXHIBIT6.10. Waiting for Extra Confirmation
Black
/ Turnaround
Sell
White
Turnaround
55 B =Buy Signal
f
55
S =Sell Signal
50 B3 50
t5 t5
to B2 to
35 35
B1
30 30
25
S1
25
NOM MJ N M~ M J PI S 0 r M ~ M~ S 0
MetaStock by EQUIS Int'l
EXHIBIT6.9. Five-Line Break Chart, Ford-Weekly
Three-LineBreak Charts 183
waiting for the line after a turnaround line to confirm the new trend. For
example, as shown in Exhibit 6.10, a trader could wait for the white line
after the white turnaround line before buying. (Looking back at Exhibit
6.3, traders using this concept would not have bought at B2 since there
was only a white turnaround line.)
This idea of waiting for extra confirmation would, of course, involve
a tradeoff between risk and reward. The longer a trader waits for a con­
firmation of a trend reversal, the greater the likelihood of being correct,
but the lower the profit potential since more of the new trend had already
Neck
(Buy Signal)
-:
Black
EXHIBIT 6.11. Black Shoe, White Suit, and a Neck Shoe
Black Shoe, White and Black Suits, and a Neck
As displayed in Exhibit 6.11, a short black line is sometimes called a black
shoe for the obvious reason that such a line looks like a black shoe. A
white turnaround line (a white line that surpasses the prior three black
lines) is sometimes likened to a white suit.
The short white line that comes immediately after a white turnaround
line (Le., a white suit) is called a neck since it looks like a neck coming
out of the white suit.
There is a Japanese expression regarding the three-line break: "Buy
when the neck emerges from the white suit with black shoes." The rea­
son for this expression is as follows:
started. As expressed in the Japanese literature, "even though one will
get a slow start and the profits will be smaller, the false moves will be
less and the safety factor will increase." This concept of waiting for ad­
ditional lines to confirm the new trend is similar to using a short-term
moving average versus a longer term one. Those who use a short-term
moving average get aboard the new trend earlier, but whipsaws are in­
creased.
1. The small black line (the shoe) shows that the selling pressure may
be easing since the move towards lower prices is becoming more le­
thargic.
2. The white turnaround line is a bullish reversal signal.
3. The neck is the buy signal. The neck's short white line is viewed as
the market taking a breather after its prior advance (i.e., after the prior
white turnaround line). A short white line could also reflect that the
bears may have not yet covered their shorts (these who sold during
the series of black lines that came before the white turnaround line).
This could mean higher prices once these shorts decide to cover. Since
the neck is also the second white line after the white turnaround line,
184 The DisparityIndex and NewPrice Charts
Three-LineBreak Charts 185
/Neck
it serves as extra bullish confirmation. As discussed previously, some
traders prefer waiting for the second white line as a buy signal.
EXHIBIT 6.12. Neck, Black Suit, and a Black Shoe
Black
/Suit
1. The diminutive real body at the top of the rally (i.e., the neck) shows
that either the buying pressure is slackening or the selling pressure is
enough to slow the bulls' advance.
2. The black turnaround line (the black suit) is a reversal signal that tells
us that the bears have gained control.
3. The small black line (the shoe) means that the market is weak, but not
oversold. Also, it shows that the buyers on the way up (during the
series of white lines before the black turnaround line) may not have
liquidated as yet. This could mean that there is still more selling likely
to come when these existing longs decide to liquidate. The black shoe
after the black turnaround line also provides bearish confirmation
for these who prefer to wait for a second black line to get a reversal
signal.
In Exhibit 6.12, I show an example of a neck, a black suit, and a black
shoe. This black turnaround line is sometimes called a black suit. The
small black line after the black suit is the sell signal.
There is a saying that a trader should "sell if the black shoe comes
out of a black suit after a neck." The meaning of this expression is ex­
plained below:
I show in Exhibit 6.13 a bottom reversal signal in September and into
October that is based on the saying, "buy when the neck emerges from
a white suit with black shoes." The small black line, i.e., a black shoe,
emerged near $42 in September. The white suit (another name for the
white turnaround line) came after this black shoe. Following the black
shoe, a white line, because of its small size, was a neck, and hence a buy
signal. A top reversal pattern, grounded on the dictum, "sell when black
shoes are under a black suit after a neck," appears at the price peak near
$59. The small white line after the rally was a neck, the black turnaround
line after this neck was a black suit, and the confirmation of a sell came
with the small black shoe.
(Sell signal)/
Black Shoe
186 The DisparityIndex and New Price Charts
Just as record sessions are important in candle charting, so this technique
is useful for some of the new charting techniques such as the three-line
break chart, and as we'll see later, kagi charts. When there are 8 to 10
consecutive or almost consecutive white lines, the market is viewed as
being overextended to the upside. When there are 8 to 10 black lines
during a downtrend, the market becomes vulnerable to a bounce.
One of my important sources of information has been the Nippon
Technical Analysis Association. I sent the NTAA member a copy of Ex­
hibit 6.14 with some questions about the three-line break chart. This
gentleman graciously addressed my questions, and he also placed the
numbers shown on each of the falling black lines. He did this to illustrate
how he uses record session counts as one of the techniques for trading
with the three-line break chart. We see in this chart that when the market
59
5B
57
56
55
51
53
52
51
50
19
1B
17
16
15
11
13
12
MFJoN
"'--Black Shoe
-.ilo"!l---Neck
S 0
MEXICOTELEPHONETHREE-LINEBREAK
JJ
Record Sessions and Three-Line Break Charts
59
5B
57
56
55
51
53
52
51
50
19
1B
17
16
15
11
13
12
MetaStockby EQUIS Int'l
EXHIBIT6.13. Buy When the Neck Emerges from a White Suit with Black Shoes;
Sell When Black Shoes Are Under a Black Suit After a Neck, Mexico Telephone­
Daily
Three-LineBreak Charts 187
70
75
50
55
65
60
1993
JoF A MSON
1992
MetaStock by EQUIS Int'l
A M J AN JS 0A
50
55
60
65
70
Western Patterns and Three-Line Break Charts
75
DELTA- THREE-LINEBREAK
8
Techniques that apply to candle or bar charts, such as support and re­
sistance or double tops and trendlines, also apply to three-line break
charts.
The uptrend support line and the resistance zone in the $49.50 area
EXHIBIT 6.14. Three-Line Break Chart Record Sessions, Delta-Weekly
reached eight record sessions low, prices bounced. Another interesting
aspect of this chart was that the NTAA member also placed an X and a
Y on the chart at the price peaks shown. He mentioned that this area
was resistance on any rebounds. Although it is not shown on this chart,
a rally in late 1993 failed near this $60 resistance area and fell to near $45.
Thus, we can see that using an obvious resistance area, such as the dual
highs near $60, should be used with three line-break charts.
188 The DisparityIndex and New Price Charts
56
55
51
53
52
51
50
19
18
t7
t6
15
++
13
12
11
10
Resistance Zone
Support Line
PACIFIC TELE THREE-LINE BREAK
in Exhibit 6.15 illustrate how a trendline and a resistance area can be
defined on a three-line break chart just as easily as on a candle chart.
A double top or tweezers top is also sometimes called a two-paired
chimney. In Exhibit 6.16, we see an example of such a pattern with the
dual highs at A and B near $74.
Exhibit 6.17 shows how trendlines on the three-line break chart can
be used as effectively as on a traditional bar chart. The breaking of the
uptrending support lines signaling that the uptrend was in the process
of changing. In addition this chart also displays that the bulls were losing
force since each of the major price peaks at shoulders 1, 2 and 3 were
progressively lower.
Exhibit 6.18 displays some of the tools that can be used to trade with
the three-line break chart. A downward sloping resistance line was
pierced in early 1993. Also of interest in this chart is the prior resistance
area from mid-1992 near $68 (called old resistance on the chart) that
56
55
5t
53
52
51
50
t9
t8
t7
t6
15
++
13
12
+l
to
MetaStock by EQUIS Int'l
EXHIBIT 6.15. Trendlines and Resistance with Three-Line Break Charts, Pacific
Telephone-Daily
MetaStock by EOUIS Int'l
EXHIBIT 6.17 Three-Line Break Chart Trendlines, Pfizer-Daily
189
75
74
73
72
71
70
69
68
67
66
65
64
63
62
61
60
59
58
57
83
82
81
BO
79
78
77
76
75
74
73
72
71
70
69
68
67
66
JAN
AUG
occ
3
JUL
SEP OCT
JUN
JUL
APR MAV
PFIZER - THREE-LINE BREAK
PFIZER - THREE-LINE BREAK
75
74
73
72
71
70
69
68
67
66
65
64
63
62
61
60
59
58
57
83
82
81
80
79
78
77
76
75
74
73
72
71
70
69
68
67
66
MetaStock by EOUIS Int'l
EXHIBIT 6.16. Double Top with Three-Line Break Charts
Note
lEquity InternationalMagazine, July/August 1991.
79
7B
77
76
75
74
73
72
71
70
69
68
67
66
65
64
63
62
61
60
59
58
became a new support area. This support area was confirmed by a white
turnaround line.
MOBIL- THREE-LINEBREAK
79
78
77
76
75
74
73
72
71
70
69
68
67
66
65
64
63
62
61
60
59
58
MetaStock by EQUIS Int'l
EXHIBIT 6.18. Classic Western Techniques on a Three-Line Break Chart, Mobil­
Daily
190 The DisparityIndex and New Price Charts
PRACTICE SESSION FOR THE
THREE-LINE BREAK CHART..............................................................................
To reinforce your understanding of the three-line break chart, use the
closing prices in Table 6.2, on the following page, to construct a three­
line break chart. The scale on the vertical axis should be set up from $23
to $30. You may photocopy and use the supplied graph shown on page
193 or draw a rough scale on plain paper. The exact size of the white or
black lines is not important. The meaningful aspect of this practice is to
use your chart as a gauge to see how well you understand when a new
white or black line should be drawn.
After you construct the chart, compare it to Table 6.3 and Exhibit 6.19
(on the pages following the exercise) where the actual chart and the days
on which new lines were constructed are shown.
191
192 The DisparityIndex and New Price Charts
TABLE 6.2 Data for Three-Line Break Chart Practice Session
Date Closing Price Date Closing Price
02/18/94 25.156 04/29/94 27.000
02/22/94 25.250 05/02/94 26.875
02/23/94 26.375 05/03/94 26.625
02/24/94 26.500 05/04/94 27.687
02/25/94 26.875 05/05/94 28.000
02/28/94 27.750 05/06/94 27.125
03/01/94 27.375 05/09/94 25.875
03/02/94 27.375 05/10/94 27.250
03/03/94 27.125 05/11/94 25.500
03/04/94 28.750 05/12/94 24.875
03/07/94 28.125 05/13/94 24.875
03/08/94 27.875 05/16/94 24.125
03/09/94 28.250 05/17/94 25.000
03/10/94 28.250 05/18/94 26.250
03/11/94 28.375 05/19/94 27.375
03/14/94 28.250 OS/20/94 27.500
03/15/94 27.500 OS/23/94 28.000
03/16/94 28.500 OS/24/94 27.625
03/17/94 29.125 OS/25/94 27.125
03/18/94 29.250 OS/26/94 26.250
03/21/94 28.750 OS/27/94 26.250
03/22/94 28.500 05/31/94 26.250
03/23/94 28.625 06/01/94 26.375
03/24/94 28.250 06/02/94 26.625
03/25/94 27.125 06/03/94 27.375
03/28/94 27.500 06/06/94 28.500
03/29/94 26.250 06/07/94 27.250
03/30/94 25.875 06/08/94 26.250
03/31/94 26.500 06/09/94 26.500
04/04/94 26.375 06/10/94 26.125
04/05/94 27.375 06/13/94 25.750
04/06/94 26.375 06/14/94 26.000
04/07/94 26.062 06/15/94 26.625
04/08/94 25.750 06/16/94 26.125
04/11/94 26.125 06/17/94 26.250
04/12/94 25.875 06/20/94 25.750
04/13/94 25.750 06/21/94 25.375
04/14/94 25.250 06/22/94 25.375
04/15/94 24.375 06/23/94 24.750
04/18/94 24.000 06/24/94 23.500
04/19/94 23.625 06/27/94 24.062
04/20/94 23.875 06/28/94 23.250
04/21/94 26.500 06/29/94 23.500
04/22/94 26.750 06/30/94 24.125
04/25/94 27.375 07/01/94 24.625
04/26/94 27.375 07/05/94 24.625
04/28/94 26.875
193
194 The DisparityIndex and New Price Charts
TABLE 6.3 Data for Answers to Three-Line Break Chart Practice Session.
Numbers in Parentheses Refer to Line Numbers in Exhibit 6.19
Date Closing Price Date Closing Price
02/18/94 25.156 04/29/94 27.000
02/22/94 25.250(1) 05/02/94 26.875
02/23/94 26.375(2) 05/03/94 26.625
02/24/94 26.500(3) 05/04/94 27.687(20)
02/25/94 26.875(4) 05/05/94 28.000(21)
02/28/94 27.750(5) 05/06/94 27.129
03/01/94 27.375 05/09/94 25.879(22)
03/02/94 27.375 05/10/94 27.250
03/03/94 27.125 05/11/94 25.500(23)
03/04/94 28.750(6) 05/12/94 24.875(24)
03/07/94 28.125 05/13/94 24.875
03/08/94 27.875 05/16/94 24.129(25)
03/09/94 28.250 05/17/94 25.000
03/10/94 28.250 05/18/94 26.250(26)
03/11/94 28.375 05/19/94 27.375(27)
03/14/94 28.250 OS/20/94 27.500(28)
03/15/94 27.500 OS/23/94 28.000(29)
03/16/94 28.500 OS/24/94 27.625
03/17/94 29.125(7) OS/25/94 27.125
03/18/94 29.250(8) OS/26/94 26.250
03/21/94 28.750 OS/27/94 26.250
03/22/94 28.500 05/31/94 26.250
03/23/94 28.625 06/01/94 26.375
03/24/94 28.250 06/02/94 26.625
03/25/94 27.125(9) 06/03/94 27.375
03/28/94 27.500 06/06/94 28.500(30)
03/29/94 26.250(10) 06/07/94 27.250(31)
03/30/94 25.875(11) 06/08/94 26.250(32)
03/31/94 26.500 06/09/94 26.500
04/04/94 26.375 06/10/94 26.125(33)
04/05/94 27.375 06/13/94 25.750(34)
04/06/94 26.375 06/14/94 26.000
04/07/94 26.062 06/15/94 26.629
04/08/94 25.750(12) 06/16/94 26.129
04/11/94 26.125 06/17/94 26.250
04/12/94 25.875 06/20/94 25.750
04/13/94 25.750 06/21/94 25.375(35)
04/14/94 25.250(13) 06/22/94 25.375
04/15/94 24.375(14) 06/23/94 24.750(36)
04/18/94 24.000(15) 06/24/94 23.500(37)
04/19/94 23.625(16) 06/27/94 24.062
04/20/94 23.875 06/28/94 23.250(38)
04/21/94 26.500(17) 06/29/94 23.500
04/22/94 26.750(18) 06/30/94 24.125
04/25/94 27.375(19) 07/01/94 24.625
04/26/94 27.375' 07/05/94 24.625
04/28/94 26.875
OUTBACK - THREE-LINE BREAK
8
29.0 I {
tI
29.0
30 28.5
~5~
21 28.0
20 n28.0
28
I
27.5
--lEI JEllt
27.51
40 27.018
26H I 26.5
27.0
IrfI -.26.5
26.0~-33
3
26.0 2 --
25.525.5
25.0125.0
24.524.5
24.02524.0
23.523.5
EXHIBIT 6.19. Three-Line Break Chart Outback
......
~
MAR APR MAY
MetaStock by EQUIS Int'l
JUN
CHAPTER 7
RENKO CHARTS..............................................................................
"Consider the Past and You Will Know the Future"
The renko chart, shown in Exhibit 7.1, is also termed a neri, training,
or zigzag chart. The renko charts looks similar to the three-bar break
chart since they both have lines that look like blocks. The individual
blocks that form the renko chart are sometimes referred to as bricks (the
term renko may come from "renga," which is the Japanese word for
bricks).
As we saw in Chapter 6, in a three-bar break chart, another line is
added as the market moves in the direction of the prevailing trend, no
matter how small the move. For example, if the market closed today by
even one tick higher, a new white line would be added to the three-line
break chart if the prior line was white.
However, for a renko chart, a line is drawn in the direction of the
prior move only if a fixed amount has been exceeded. For example, if
there is a white brick on the renko chart, the market has to advance by
a predetermined fixed amount before a new white brick can be drawn.
Another difference between the renko and three-line break chart is
that the lines in the three-line break chart are of different sizes, while the
bricks in a renko chart are all the same size.
197
198 The DisparityIndex and New Price Charts
125
EXHIBIT 7.1. Example of Five-Point Renko Chart Based on Prices from Table 7.1
(38)
(36)
(14)
(19)
(11)
180
170
165
175
155 (12)
150
160 (17)
145
135 (1)
140
130 (3)
Renko Charts 199
CONSTRUCTION OF RENKO CHARTS
TABLE 7.1 Data for the Five-Unit Renko Chart Displayed in
Exhibit 7.1
165<
168<
171t(l)
173<
169<
177t(l)
180t(l)
176<
170~(1)
175<
179<
173<
170<
170<
168<
165 HI)
171<
175t(l)
179<
175<
Closing Price
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
Session
base price 135
132<
128~(1)
133<
130<
130<
132<
134<
139<
137<
145t(2)
158 t(2)
147<
143~(1)
150<
149<
160t(2)
164<
167t(l)
156<
Closing PriceSession
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
Legend
« )-Move is less than fixed amount. No brick is drawn.
i -Where the price exceeds the prior brick by the fixed amount.
( ) Shows how many white bricks are drawn.
i-Where the price moves under the prior brick by the fixed amount.
( ) Shows how many black bricks are drawn.
Table 7.1 shows the price data used to draw the example of the renko
chart in Exhibit 7.1.
The renko chart uses closing prices. The first step is to choose a price
range unit. This price range point is the minimum amount the market
must move before a renko brick is drawn. The price range point also
serves to set the height of the brick. Thus, a five-point renko chart would
have bricks that are five points tall. This will become clear after I go
through the following detailed example. An important aspect of the renko
chart is that rising lines are denoted by equal size white bricks and falling
lines are denoted by equal size black bricks. Thus, no matter how large
the move, it is shown on the renko chart as equal sized bricks. For ex­
ample in a five-point renko chart, a 20-point rally is displayed as four
five-point-high renko bricks.
200 The DisparityIndex and New Price Charts
110
105 Two bricks
100
10 point rally
in a five unit
renko chart
•
7 point rally from
100 to 107 in a five
unit renko chart
107 } This is not
105 [f--=Shown
One brick
100
Must ascend by at least
(
the chosen price range
105
100 Base price
Note: Prices should touch or exceed
the prior high or low by the point
amount for a brick to be drawn.
This is different from the three-line
break chart, where the price should
exceed the prior high or low.
Rule 1. If the market rallies from
the base price:
A white brick (or a series of white
bricks) is drawn only if the market
moves above the base price by the
fixed amount or more. Thus, if
there is a base price of 100 and we
are using a five-point renko chart,
then the market has to move up to
at least 105 before a white brick is
drawn.
or
Rule 2. If the market falls from the
base price:
OUR EXAMPLE:We will use a five­
point renko chart. This means each
brick will be five points high. Our
base, or starting price, is 135.
If the market moves up by more
than what would be required to
draw one brick, but less than
needed to draw two bricks, only
one brick is drawn. For example,
in a five-point renko chart, if the
base price is 100 and the market
moves to 107, then one white renko
brick is drawn from the base price
of 100 up to 105. The rest of the
move-from 105 to 107-is not
shown on the renko chart. How­
ever, if the market had moved up
to 110, then there would be two
five-point-tall white bricks. A move
to 112 would also have two white
bricks. The portion of the rally from
110 to 112 would not show.
Drawing the first brick: Compare the base price to the current close.
Renko Charts 201
90
100
130 (Session 3)
85
15 point decline
from100 to 85
100 Base price
I
Must fall by the
95 - minimum fixed
amount or more
']
J
13 point decline
from100 to 87
1001
95 } This portion is
92 not shown
8 point decline
from100 to 92
Draw a black brick only when the
price declines from the base by the
fixed amount or more (in this ex­
ample, five points). Thus, with a
base price of 100, the market has to
decline to 95 or lower before a black
brick is drawn. The first black brick
starts from the base price and goes
down by the fixed point amount.
If the decline is more than the
fixed point, but less than twice the
minimum amount, then draw only
one black brick. As an example, a
decline from a base price of 100
down to 92 on a renko chart would
have one five-point black brick
from 100 to 95.
Rule 3. If the market moves up or
down by less than the minimum
fixed point (in this case, five
points), then no bricks are drawn.
For example, for a five-point chart
and a base price of 100, until the
market goes up to 105 or down to
95, there is no brick shown.
or
However, if there was a decline
of, for example, 13 points, then two
black bricks would be drawn. If the
market fell by 15 points, there
would be three black bricks, with
each brick in a separate column.
OUR EXAMPLE: In Table 7.1, the
base price is at 135. Since this ex­
ample is a five-point renko chart,
to draw a black brick the market
has to move to 130 or lower (i.e.,
five points under the 135 base
price). For a white brick, the mar­
ket would have to ascend to 140 or
higher (i.e., five points above the
135 base price). At session 2, the
market fell to 132 or three points
(135 to 132). This was not enough
to draw a black brick since it was
less than the minimum fiXe points
needed. By session 3, prices had
202 The DisparityIndex and New Price Charts
Drawing the next brick: Compare today's close with the high and low of
the last brick.
moved down to 128. This was now
seven points under the base price
of 135. This seven-point fall is
enough to draw one black brick.
Thus, at session 3, we draw one
five-point black brick from 135 to
130.
or
90
If prior brick
is black
- Bottom of
last
brick =
95
High of last
brick = 100
If prior brick
is white
If prior brick
is black
105
- New brick added
New brick added
105
- High of last
brick =100
95
95
90
100
105
100
If prior brick
is white
10[ 105Bottom of
95 ~r~~k = 100
95 or
90 90 95
Rule 5. If today's price closes un­
der the bottom of the last brick
(white or black) by the minimum
amount or more, then move a col­
umn to the right and draw one or
more black bricks with each equal
size brick in its own column. This
means that if the bottom of the last
brick is 95, the market would have
to go to at least 90 before a black
brick is drawn. Such a brick would
go from the low of the previous
brick at 95 down to 90.
or
Rule 6. If the price is under the
high or above the bottom of the last
brick, then nothing is drawn.
or
Rule 4. If today's close is above the
top of the last brick (whether that
brick is white or black) by the point
amount or more, move a column
to the right and draw one or more
white equal height bricks. The brick
starts from the high of the prior
brick. Thus, if the top of the latest
brick was at 100, in our five-point
renko chart, the market would
have to move to 105 or higher for
a white brick to be drawn. This
white brick would go from 100 to
105. If the market goes to 113, then
there would be two white bricks,
with each brick in a separate
column.
--------------------
TRADING TECHNIQUES WITH RENKO CHARTS
Current price range
_ For a white brick
need 140 or higher
Renko Charts 203
_ For a black brick
need 125 or lower
145 - (Session 11)
140
130
135
OUR EXAMPLE: The high of the
first brick is 135 and the low is 130.
To draw a new brick in our five­
point renko chart, the price has to
move to 140 (i.e., five points above
the 135 high) or higher for a white
brick, or 125 (i.e., five points under
the 130 low) or lower for a black
brick. If the market remains under
140 or above 125, then nothing is
drawn.
The next time the market reached
either 140 or higher or 125 or lower (Base price) 135
was at session 11, with a price of
145. At that time, we drew two 130 (session 3)
five-point white bricks from the
prior high of 135 to the new high
at 145.
Drawing the next bricks: Using the data from Table 7.1 draw the rest of
the chart shown in Exhibit 7.1 by the same process just discussed. For
example, let's look at session 12 on Table 7.1. At that session the price
was 158. The prior high, at session 11, was 145. We thus draw two five­
point white bricks from the high of the prior renko brick at 145 up to 155
(the rest of the move from 155 to 158 is not shown on the renko chart).
With the high of the last brick (at session 12) at 155 and the low of that
brick at 150, we need the market to move either to 160 or higher for a
white brick, or 145 or under for a black brick. Thus, at session 14 the
market fell enough (to 143) to draw a new black brick down to 145.
Unlike the varied trading techniques applicable with three-line break
charts and kagi charts (discussed in the next chapter), the renko charts
are more limited. The only trend reversal signals with renko charts are
with the emergence of a bullish white brick or bearish black brick. Buy
and sell signals based on this technique are shown in Exhibit 7.2.
As shown in that exhibit, buy signals (shown by the letter B) are
generated with the appearance of a white brick. Sell signals (shown by
5) are produced when a black brick appears. Since the renko chart is a
trend-following technique, there will be times when the market is in a
lateral trading band. In such an environment there may be whipsaws
(see BcSlI B3-S3, and BCS4) . However, the expectation with a trend­
following technique such as this is that it allows traders to ride on the
204 The DisparityIndex and New Price Charts
INTEL #2 RENKO
70
65
60
55
50
45
40
35
30
25
20
,93
major portion of the trend. This is shown by the buy and sell signals
produced at B2-S2, Bs-Ss, and B6-S6 .
Exhibit 7.3 shows the advantages offered by a renko chart in a trend­
ing market. The buy signals come with the arrival of a white renko brick
and the sell signals with a black brick. Only when the market shifted into
a lateral range at L did the renko chart induce in and out trading.
In Exhibit 7.4 we take a longer term bond chart to see how the renko
chart could be used as a technical tool to buy. When the market shifts
into a neutral band, as it did at areas 1 and 2 on the chart, then the renko
chart may induce more volatile trading. However, this chart did allow a
long to enter and capture the bulk of the 1993 rally while keeping him
out of the market for most of the late 1993- early 1994 selloff.
70
65
60
55
50
45
40
35
30
25
20 !......-;-----------,r----------------------'
MetaStock by EQUIS Int'l
EXHIBIT7.2. Basic Buy and Sell Signals Generated with a Renko Chart, Intel-$2
Renko, Daily
EXHIBIT7.4. Bond Futures-Weekly-24/32 renko Buying Long
EXHIBIT7.3. Basic Buy and Sell Signals, Gold-Weekly-$3 Renko
205
405
400
395
3~
3B5
380
375
370
365
360
355
350
345
340
335
330
122
121
120
119
lIB
117
116
115
114
113
112
111
110
109
lOB
107
106
105
104
103
102
'94
MelaSlock by EOUIS Inl'l
'93
'93
BONDS - WEEKLY - 24/32 RENKO
MelaSlock by EOUIS Inl'l
122
121
120
119
lIB
117
116
115
114
113
112
III
110
109
lOB
107
106
105
104
103
102
405
400
395
390
385
3BO
375
370
365
360
355
350
345
340
335
330
GOLD - WEEKLY (3-PT RENKO)
1------------
PRACTICE SESSION FOR THE
RENKO CHART
Using the data from Table 7.2 (on the following page), build a $1 renko
chart. The scale should be from $40 to $50. You may photocopy and use
the supplied graph on page 209 or use plain paper. When finished, com­
pare your answer to that shown in Exhibit 7.5 and Table 7.3 found on
the following pages.
207
208 The DisparityIndex and New Price Charts
TABLE 7.2 Data for Construction of $1 Renko Practice Chart
Date Close Date Close
03/24/94 47.625 05/16/94 43.750
03/25/94 47.750 05/17/94 44.000
03/28/94 47.500 05/18/94 44.875
03/29/94 46.125 05/19/94 44.625
03/30/94 45.125 05/20/94 45.250
03/31/94 45.250 05/23/94 45.250
04/04/94 44.500 05/24/94 45.250
04/05/94 45.000 05/25/94 45.125
04/06/94 45.250 05/26/94 45.500
04/07/94 44.875 05/27/94 45.625W 7
04/08/94 44.250 05/31/94 45.500
04/11/94 43.375 06/01/94 45.625
04112/94 42.500 06/02/94 45.000
04/13/94 42.750 06/03/94 44.750
04/14/94 42.000 06/06/94 44.875
04/15/94 41.375 06/07/94 45.250
04/18/94 40.000 06/08/94 45.250
04/19/94 39.875 06/09/94 45.125
04/20/94 40.125 06/10/94 45.125
04/21/94 41.250 06/13/94 45.625
04/22/94 42.250 06/14/94 45.500
04/25194 42.625 06/15/94 45.375
04/26/94 43.375 06/16/94 46.500
04/28/94 45.250 06/17/94 47.000
04/29/94 47.500 06/20/94 46.125
05/02/94 47.625 06/21/94 45.125
05/03/94 46.500 06/22/94 45.375
05/04/94 46.125 06/23/94 45.875
05/05/94 46.250 06/24/94 45.250
05/06/94 45.750 06/27/94 45.250
05/09/94 45.125 06/28/94 44.625
05/10/94 45.250 06/29/94 45.1251
05/11/94 43.500 06/30/94 45.250
05112/94 43.625 07/01/94 46.125
05/13/94 44.125 07/05/94 46.750
-
-
-
-
209
210 The DisparityIndex and New Price Charts
TABLE 7.3 Data for Answers to Renko Chart Practice Session Shown in
Exhibit 7.5. W = White Brick, B = Black Brick.
Date Close Date Close
03/24/94 47.625 base price 05/16/94 43.750
03/25/94 47.750 05/17/94 44.000'
03/28/94 47.500 05/18/94 44.875
03/29/94 46.125 B 1 05/19/94 44.625
03/30/94 45.125 B 2 05/20/94 45.250
03/31/94 45.250 05/23/94 45.250
04/04/94 44.500 B 3 OS/24/94 45.250
04/05/94 45.000 05/25/94 45.125
04/06/94 45.250 05/26/94 45.500
04/07194 44.875 OS/27/94 45.625W 7
04/08/94 44.250 05/31/94 45.500
04/11/94 43.375 B 4 06/01/94 45.625
04/12/94 42.500 B s 06/02/94 45.000
04/13194 42.750 06/03/94 44.750
04/14194 42.000 06/06/94 44.875
04/15194 41.375 B 6 06/07/94 45.250
04/18/94 40.000 B 7 06/08/94 45.250
04/19/94 39.875 06/09/94 45.125
04/20/94 40.125 06/10/94 45.125
04/21/94 41.250 06/13/94 45.625
04/22/94 42.250 06/14/94 45.500
04/25/94 42.625 W 1 06/15/94 45.375
04/26/94 43.375 06/16/94 46.500
04/28/94 45.250 W 2 and W3 06/17/94 47.000 W s
04/29/94 47.500 W 4 and Ws 06/20/94 46.125
05/02/94 47.625 W 6 06/21/94 45.125
05/03/94 46.500 06/22/94 45.375
05/04/94 46.125 06/23/94 45.875
05/05/94 46.250 06/24/94 45.250
05/06/94 45.750 06/27/94 45.250
05/09/94 45.125 s, 06/28/94 44.625 B 11
05/10/94 45.250 06/29/94 45.125
05/11/94 43.500 B 9 and B10 06/30/94 45.250
05/12/94 43.625 07101/94 46.125
05/13/94 44.125 07/05/94 46.750 W 9
DELTA - $1 RENKO
47.5 47.5
47.0 47.0
46.5 46.5
46.0 Ws wg 46.0
45.5 45.5
45.0 45.0
44.5 44.5
44.0 W3 44.0
43.5
j
43.5
43.0 8s w2 43.0
. 42.5 l 42.5
rr1
><
I 42.0 r- 86 ---'" I ~W1 ~::t: 42.0....0::1....
~
41.5 ~
•
~ 41. 5:'l
Y1
0 41. 0 ~ 8
7
_____
~ 41. 0e,.....PJ
r 40.5 ~ ~ 40.5I
f:F>,.....
""I
ro
I APR MAY JUN JUL~I ~0
CHAPTER 8
KAGI CHARTS
"Like the Right Arm Helping the Left"
The Kagi chart is thought to have been created around the time that the
Japanese stock market started trading in the 1870s. A kagi chart is shown
in Exhibit 8.1. The name kagi chart comes from the Japanese word' 'kagi, "
which was an old fashioned key that had an L-shaped head. This is the
reason that kagi charts are also called key charts by some Japanese. Other
names for the kagi chart include the price range chart, the hook chart,
the delta chart, and the string chart.
A Japanese book on kagi stated, ": .. just as candle charts are superior
to bar charts, so key charts are superior to point and figure charts"l I am
not enough of an expert on point and figure charts to agree or disagree
with that statement. What I can state with certainty, however, is that
kagi charts will open new and rich methods of analysis that are unavail­
able with any other chart.
The basic premise of the kagi chart is that the thickness and the di­
rection of the kagi lines are dependent on the market's action. If the
market continues to move in the direction of the prior kagi line, that line
is extended. However, if the market reverses by a predetermined amount,
a new kagi line is drawn in the next column in the opposite direction.
An interesting aspect of the kagi chart is that when prices penetrate a
prior low or high, the thickness of the kagi line changes. The thick kagi
line is called a yang line and the thin kagi line is called a yin line. Later
in this chapter, I will detail how to construct and interpret the yang and
yin lines. The short horizontal line on the kagi chart is labeled the inflec­
tion line.
213
36
18
17
12-.........
EXHIBIT 8.1. Example of a Kagi Chart Using Table 8.1
11
14
140 9
4
Base
Price 8
130
3 7
150
160
39
180 27 38
26
40
37
170 3519
214 The DisparityIndex and New Price Charts
Kagi Charts 215
CONSTRUCTION OF KAGI CHARTS
Kagi charts are most commonly based on closing prices. Before starting
the kagi chart, a turnaround (i.e., or reversal) amount must be chosen.
This is the minimum price movement that is needed before a new reversal
line can be drawn in the next column. For instance, if the turnaround
amount is $3, and if there is a rising line, today's price must close lower
by at least $3 before a falling turnaround line can be drawn. This will be
become clear when I get into more detail about the construction of the
kagi chart. For kagi charts, the turnaround amount can be touched or
exceeded for a reversal line to be drawn.
OUR EXAMPLE: The starting
price, as shown at session 1 in
Table 8.1, is 135. The turn­
around amount in this example
will be four points.
TABLE 8.1 Data Used for Four-Point Kagi Chart in Exhibit 8.1
Session Closing Price Session Closing Price
1 135 base price 21 165i
2 132< 22 168i
3 128~ 23 171 i
4 133i 24 173i
5 130< 25 169~
6 129~ 26 177i
7 127 ~ 27 180i
8 134* (prior high-133) 28 176~
9 139i 29 170~
10 137< 30 165* (prior low-169)
11 145t 31 169t
12 158t 32 173t
13 14n 33 170<
14 143~ 34 170<
15 150i 35 168~
16 149< 36 165~
17 160i 37 171 t
18 164t 38 175* (prior high-173)
19 167i 39 179t
20 156~ 40 175~
Legend
(< )-Move is less than reversal amount. No line is drawn.
*-Where the price exceeds the prior high or low (line changes thickness).
t ~-Up and down arrows-show direction of the current line on Exhibit 8.1.
216 The DisparityIndex and New Price Charts
Drawing the first line: Compare today's price to the base price.
Drawing the second line: Compare today's price to the tip (Le., the bot­
tom or the top) of the last kagi line. In our example, the bottom of the
line is 128 and the top is 135, so we would compare the more current
price to 135 and 128.
[
Today's price
Base price
[
Base price
Today's price
[
135 (Base price)
128 (Session 3)
Rule 1. If today's price is higher
than the base price by the turn­
around amount or more (in our ex­
ample, this would mean four or
more points from the starting
price), then a thick (yang) line is
drawn from the starting price to the
new high closing price.
Note: To draw a line, the change in
price should be the same or greater
than the turnaround amount.
Rule 2. If today's price is lower
than the base price by the prede­
termined turnaround amount or
more, then draw a thin (yin) line
from the starting price down to to­
day's price.
Rule 3. If the difference between
the current close and the base price
is less than the minimum turn­
around amount (in our case, four
points), no line is drawn
OUR EXAMPLE: The starting price
is 135. During the next session, the
market moved down to 132. This is
less than the predetermined turn­
around amount of four points, so
we cannot yet draw a line. At ses­
sion 3, the price had fallen to 128.
Now, the market had dropped
more than the four points needed
to draw the first line (from session
1 to session 3, prices fell seven
points). Thus, we draw a thin yin
line (because the market moved
down) from the starting price of 135
down to 128.
I Pn""o,"
1=New low close
Yin line
IBasep,~ IIU1331..... ""4)
128
(Session 3)
·Rule 4. If the price continues in the
same direction as the prior line, the
line is extended in the same direc­
tion, no matter how small the
move. Thus, in our example, if the
price fell to 127, we would then ex­
tend the yin line down from 128 to
127. However, if the first line is a
thick yang line (instead of yin line),
the thick line would then be ex­
tended higher if there is a new high
close.
or
Rule 5. If the market changes di­
rection by the turnaround amount
or more (this could take a number
of sessions), then we go the next
column, draw a short horizontal
line (called an inflectionline) to the
next column and draw a vertical
line in the new direction to the new
price. In our example, the low of
the last line was at 128. Since we
need a four-point turnaround, the
market would have to close at 132
or higher to draw a new line in the
opposite direction.
or
Rule 6. If the market moves in the
opposite direction to the preceding
trend by less than the turnaround
amount, then that session is ig­
nored.
OUR EXAMPLE: With the bottom
of the last kagi line at 128, we com­
pare the price at session 4 to that
at 128. With session 4 at 133, it
means prices had risen by five
points (from 128 to 133). This was
enough of a move (since the turn­
around amount was four points) to
draw a new line in the opposite di­
rection to the prior line. As a re­
sult, we move a column to the right
by drawing a short horizontal line
(the inflection line) and then draw
a line going up. This line starts at
128 and goes up to 133.
y
x
Inflection line
Kagi Charts 217
f
New high close
Prior close
Yang line
x ~Inflection line
Note: These lines can be thick or thin. The
move from x to y must be equal to or
greater than chosen turnaround amount.
y
218 The DisparityIndex and NewPrice Charts
Drawing the third line: We again compare the most recent kagi line with
today's price. Using our example, the last kagi line stopped at 133. So
we now compare today's price to 133.
t
33
129 (Session 6)128 127 (Session 7)
From x to y the market
must reverse by the
turnaround amount
135~x 133
128 Y
Any move above
135 ~/prior high is added to this line
133
128
(Base price)135 ~
133(Session 4)
128 129(Session 6)
Rule 8. If the price declines by the
turnaround amount or more (in our
case, four points), then a new line
is drawn down. Based on our ex­
ample, since the tip of the last line
was 133, the market would have to
fall to at least 129 for a line to be
drawn in the next column.
Rule 7. Because the kagi line is
currently rising, if the price ad­
vances by any amount, the line is
extended to the new high price.
Rule 9. If the market declines by
less than the predetermined turn­
around amount, nothing is drawn.
At session 7, the price declines to
127. We extend the line down from
129 to 127 (since the move lower
from 129 to 127 was in the direction
of the prior kagi line, we do not
need the four-point move that
would be needed for a rising
turnaround line).
OUR EXAMPLE: The tip of the last
kagi line, from session 4, is at 133.
We compare session 5's price of 130
to this price at 133. Although prices
reversed as the market went down
from 133 to 130, the decline was
less than the four points needed to
draw a turnaround line on our kagi
chart. Thus, session 5 is ignored.
The next time a new line is added
is at session 6. At session 6, the
price is at 129 or four points under
the bottom of the prior kagi line at
133. We move to the next column
and draw a turnaround line from
133 down to 129.
Kagi Charts 219
Using Percentage Kagi Charts
OUR EXAMPLE: For the rest of this discussion, see Table 8.1 and Exhibit
8.1.
A problem in using a fixed price turnaround amount is that the reversal
amount may have to be adjusted depending on the stock's price. A $1
~
Line changes from
_ thick to thin
when price falls under
Waist prior waist (i.e. low)
~
1 3~i(~~~:on 8)
Above here line changes
from thin (Yin) to thick (Yang)
127 (Session 7)
Line changes from
Shou)tder thin to thick
when price exceeds
prior shoulder
(Le. high)
Rule 10. If a narrow line in a kagi
chart exceeds the prior high, at the
point where the previous high was
exceeded, the line becomes thick.
The preceding high is called a
shoulder.
Rule 11. If a thick kagi line breaks
a previous low, the line becomes
narrow at the price where the low
was penetrated. The preceding low
is called a waist.
At session 8, the price has moved
up to 134. This is a seven-point
rally from the low of the prior kagi
line at 127-more than enough to
draw a rising turnaround line.
We then shift to a new column, and
draw a line up from 127 to 134.
Note how this line changed from
narrow to thick once the price ex­
ceeded the prior high at 133. This
brings out one of the major fea­
tures about kagi charts. Specifi­
cally:
As described in Rule 11 above, the line changes from thick to thin
when a prior low is broken. Note how in Exhibit 8.1 there were times
whent~he market reversed price action, but these reversals were not
enough to break a preceding low (for example, from session 19 to 20).
Thus, the line's thickness did not change. However, at session 30, the
price at 165 broke under the prior low at 169 (at session 25). Conse-,
quently, when the kagi line for session 30 is drawn, once the price of
that line moves under the prior low of 169, it changes from thick to thin
(from a yang to yin line). Observe how at session 38 the market broke a
prior high and, as such, went from a thin yin line to a thick yang line.
220 The DisparityIndex and New Price Charts
turnaround may be acceptable for a $20 or $30 stock, but a $1 turnaround
would be too high for a $5 stock and too low for a $100 stock. The kagi
chart has a unique and powerful approach to this problem-it offers the
ability to use a fixed percentage reversal amount instead of a fixed price.
For example, in a 3% kagi chart, if the chart starts at $50, the first
turnaround price will be $1.50 (3% of $50). If the stock rises to $70, the
turnaround price would be $2.10 (3% of $70). Thus, as the stock's price
rises, the turnaround price would automatically increase, and if the price
falls, the turnaround price would decrease.
Using percentage kagi charts is not as common as the fixed price kagi
in Japan. This is because many Japanese traders prefer to draw the kagi
charts by hand, and doing percentage changes is relatively time consum­
ing. However, with computer software now available for kagi charting
(see the EQUI5, Meta5tock software information at the end of this book),
traders can now easily use percentage turnarounds.
Whether a trader uses a fixed price or a fixed percentage unit as a
reversal, the amount chosen for the turnaround lines is an individual
preference depending on a trader's time frame and trading style. An
expert in kagi from the Nippon Technical Analysts Association passed
on to me that, as a general rule, he uses a 3% turnaround level for stocks.
The 5% kagi also appears popular for longer term traders.
TRADING TECHNIQUES WITH THE KAGI CHART
Buy on Yang, Sell on Yin
The are many ways to use kagi charts, but the most basic is to buy when
the kagi line goes from thin to thick, and to sell when the kagi line
changes from thick to thin. Remember that the kagi line becomes thick
(i.e., becomes a yang line) when the prior high is exceeded. The kagi line
converts to a thin yin line when a prior low is broken.
In Exhibit 8.2, I show basic kagi buy and sell signals. The buys occur
with the emergence of a yang (thick) line, and sell signals unfold when
the kagi line converts to a yin line (i.e., thin). As can be seen, when the
market trades sideways, the buy and sell signals can induce losses (for
example, from B2 to 52 and from B3 to 53)' This is because kagi charts,
like renko and three-line break charts, are trending tools, and in non­
trending markets can cause traders to frequently move in and out of the
market. (There are ways to circumvent this, for example, by adjusting
the sensitivity. This will be discussed later.) However, the goal of the
kagi chart is to catch longer term trends. This was accomplished between
the buy at B4 and the offsetting sale at 54' A constructive aspect of this
MERRILL LYNCH - 3% KAGI
NOU
100
95
90
85
80
75
70
B =Buy Signal 65
S =Sell Signal
60
JUN JUL ~UG OCTM~YJ~N FE8 M~R ~PR
60
MetaStock by EQUIS Int'l
EXHIBIT8.2. Basic Buy and Sell Signals, Merrill Lynch-3% Kagi, Daily
65
70
75
100
80
Kagi Charts 221
85
90
95
Shoulders and Waists
Merrill Lynch chart was that, since January, there was a series of higher
highs and higher lows. This conveyed an underlying strength to the
market. Since 54' however, there have been lower highs and lower lows.
This aspect of comparing highs and lows is discussed below.
A shoulder is a prior high and a waist is a former low. A series of shoul­
ders and waists with ascending highs or descending lows can relay much
information about the underlying tone of the market. As shown in Exhibit
8.3(A), a series of rising shoulders (denoted by 51' 52' and 53) and waists
(W11 W2' and W3) underscores the market's vitality insofar as the bulls
are able to maintain a cycle of higher highs and higher lows. In Exhibit
8.3(B), falling shoulders 51' 52, and 53 and declining waists W 1I W2, and
W3 echo a market in which the bears have the greater control.
In Exhibit 8.4, we see how a sequence of higher shoulders (5c5s)
222 The DisparityIndex and New Price Charts
50
55
60
65
-
-
(8)
Falling Shoulders
and Falling Waists
L
D
L.- L
I.-
C
r
(A)
Rising Shoulders
and Rising Waists
I.-
L-
8
EXHIBIT 8.3. Shoulders and Waists
W=Waists
S = Shoulder
-.. -
AMERICAN CYANAMID #2 KAGI
I.-
A
showed the underlying force of the bulls. The chart also shows how the
waists, at W 1-W4, formed ascending lows. While this combination of
higher highs and higher lows was unfolding, the kagi chart reflected a
healthy environment. A hint that the bulls' force was dissipating came
at waist 5 (Ws). That waist broke the prior cycle of higher lows since Ws
50
55
60
MetaStock by EQUIS Int'l
EXHIBIT 8.4. Importance of Highs and Lows, American Cyanamid-$2 Kagi, Daily
18.0
18.5
19.0
w,
S1
18.0
19.0
18.5
JANUS FUND - 25 CENT KAGI
19.5 19.5
20.0 20.0
Kagi Charts 223
20.5 20.5
made a lower low (it was lower than W4) . From a long-term perspective,
this market has shown continuing weakness, as evidenced by the series
of lower major highs at 6-9 and the lower major lows at A-D.
5tock mutual funds prices are based only on the close. Because
candlestick charts require the open, high, low, and closing prices, they
cannot be used to analyze stock mutual funds. Now, however, we can
technically analyze mutual funds with three-line break, renko and kagi
charts, since these techniques only require the close. In Exhibit 8.5 I show
that comparing the heights of the shoulders and waists can be used to
gauge the underlying strength of a mutual fund. In this chart I show a
group of rising shoulders (51 through 55) and rising waists (WI to W5).
The first sign of a slackening in demand came when shoulder 56 was
lower that the prior shoulder and waist W5 was lower than the former
waist W5. After this, area 55 became resistance.
EXHIBIT 8.5. Comparing Shoulders and Waists, Janus Fund-.25 Kagi, Daily
224 The DisparityIndex and NewPrice Charts
Multi-Level Breaks
Three-Level
------. Break
______ Two-Level
Break
------. One-Level
Break
(B)
Three-Level
Break
One-Level-- --------- Break
---------- Two-Level
Break
(A)
Two-Level
Break
In Chapter 6, I discussed how Japanese traders may wait for extra con­
firmation in the three-line break chart by waiting for an additional white
or black line. The same strategy can be used with kagi charts. In the kagi
chart, this entails waiting for two or more prior highs or lows to be
penetrated. In Exhibit 8.6., I illustrate how each former high or low is
referred to as a level. As illustrated in Exhibit 8.6(A), the thick yang line
converts to a thin yin line when the first level (i.e., the previous waist,
WI) is broken. However, some traders may wait for a two-level break,
meaning that the two prior lows at WI and W2 are broken before a sell
signal is confirmed. Exhibit 8.6(B) shows a three-level break. This means
that the rally has to exceed the prior three highs (the prior three shoulders
5r53) before a buy is confirmed.
As is the case with any technique where extra confirmation requires
extra time, there is less profit potential once the trend is confirmed since
this confirmation takes longer. However, the extra confirmation should
mean greater probability that the trend has changed. We come back to
the immutable law of risk and reward. The less the risk, the less the
reward.
In Exhibit 8.7, a series of lower highs (marked 51-55) and lower lows
(marked WI-W5) manifested a weakening market. However, this cycle of
lower highs and lows was broken with the higher high at 56' Area 56
was also a two-level break since it moved above the prior two highs (at
54 and 55)' Further reinforcing the view that this market was bottoming
was that the pullback from 56 stopped above the prior low at W 5 • This
was the first time in many months that a low (at W 6) was higher than
the previous low (at W5) .
Length of Yang and Yin
Just as the length of a white or black candle line reflects whether it is the
bulls or bears who are in charge, so it is with a kagi line. By viewing an
EXHIBIT 8.6. Two- and Three-Level Breaks
Kagi Charts 225
MCDONALDS 3% KAGI
individual kagi line and comparing the yin (thin) and yang (thick) sections
of that line, we can obtain insight into who has the balance of power­
the bulls or the bears. Exhibit 8.8 graphically displays this concept of
yang and yin lengths. If the yin and yang sections are the same size,
then it is viewed like a doji, where the market is in balance. If the yang
section is longer, it is the bulls who dominate. A longer yin section means
that the bears are in control.
In Exhibit 8.9, kagi lines 1 through 3 have longer yang sections than
EXHIBIT 8.7. Two-Level Break, McDonald's-3% Kagi, Daily
51
53
52
51
50
19
48
17
16
15
41
13
12
11
10
J r t1 ASON
EXHIBIT 8.8. Comparing the Length
of the Yin and Yang Sections of a Kagi
Line
MetaStock by EaUIS Inl'l
J
Yin Longer
Than Yang
(c)
Jn
Yang Longer
Than Yin
(b)
51
53
52
51
50
19
18
47
16
15
14
43
42
11
10
(a)
Neutral Bulls in Control Bears in Control
Yang =Yin
Yin
Line
Yang
Line
226 The DisparityIndex and New Price Charts
410
405
400
395
390
385
380
375
370
365
360
355
350
345
340
335
NOUOCT
Line 4
flUGJUL
GOLD - DECEMBER 1993 2% KAGI
Line 1
Line 2---L----'-Line 3
JflN flPR JUN
Where Corrections Stop Within the Prior Kagi Line
Where a correction stops within a kagi line can be used as a gauge of the
market's health. Specifically, in kagi charting, the center of a long kagi
line is important. If, as shown in Exhibit 8.10(A), the market corrects after
a rally, and this correction stops before touching the center of a prior
long kagi line, it is bullish. Such a scenario displays that the bulls kept
the bears from progressing steeply into the bulls' domain. If, in this
scenario, the market then exceeds the prior shoulder, it is a buy signal
since it is a time when the bulls have regained full control of the market.
If, during a downtrend, a rally fails to pierce the midway point of a
yin sections. This means that the bulls had a stronger grip on the market
than did the bears. In kagi line 4, the longer height of the yin line as
compared to the yang line kept a bearish undertone to the market.
410
405
400
395
390
385
380
375
370
365 Yang
360
355
350
345
340
335
MetaStock by EQUIS Int'l
EXHIBIT 8.9. Yin and Yang Portions of a Kagi Line, Gold-December 1993, 2%
Kagi, Daily
Double Windows
Double windows can be top or bottom reversal patterns. (Note: a double
window in kagi charting is different from a window in candle charts.) As
illustrated in Exhibit 8.12(A), a double window bottom is formed when:
1. during a downtrend, the market bounces and forms a shoulder (at
51). This shoulder's high is less than the prior waist's low (WI).
2. the following waist (shown as W 2) is also above shoulder 51.
Kagi Charts 227
-- --- Sell
(B)
Rally Fails to Move EXHIBIT 8.10. The
Above Center of Prior Long Line
(Lines can be Thick or Thin) Middle of the Kagi Line
-- ---Buy
(A)
Center
Selloff Holds Above
Center of Prior Long Line
I(Lines can be Thick or Thin)
prior long kagi line, then it is a negative signal insofar as the bulls were
not aggressive enough to push prices above the midway point of the
prior line. This is shown in Exhibit 8.10(8).' Once the market declines
past the previous low, it is viewed as a sign to sell since it is at that point
where the bears have wrested control of the market.
Note that it is usually in the longer kagi lines that the midpoint be­
comes important. This is similar to the middle of long white or black
candles taking on significance.
In Exhibit 8.11, I display the middle of some long kagi lines by the
letter M. We see how M, became a support area as the low of kagi line
1 held above MI' Midpoint M2 had extra importance since M2 was also
above the prior highs made from March through May in the 109-110
area. The fact that the pullback via kagi line 2 held above these old highs
and also held above M2 relayed the underlying strength of the market.
Area M3 became support on the correction made with the selloff at kagi
line 3. Kagi line 4 broke the support area set up by M 3• Thus far, not
only has the market failed to push above the new resistance area set up
by M 4, but it has not even managed to push above the lows set by kagi
line 3 (remember the technical axiom that old support can convert to new
resistance) .
228 The DisparityIndex and New Price Charts
Bonds - December 1993, Daily 24/32 Kagi
120 120
----M 4
-4
----M3
115 115
2
---M 2
110 110
100
105
Lowest
waist
(B)
(D)
Highest
shoulder
o N
W1
Double Window
Tops
Double Window
Bottoms
J A
- ---S-­w1
(C)
(A)
M
W1____ _ 51
Mo F
105
100
MetaStock by EQUIS Int'l
EXHIBIT8.11. Kagi and Halfway Points, Bonds-December 1993, 24/32nd Kagi
EXHIBIT8.12. Double Windows
Kagi Charts 229
This is called a double window because both waists WI and W2 are above
the intervening shoulder (i.e. 51)' It is like having a price gap (i.e. an
open window) between the high at shoulder 51 and the lows at waists
to the left and right of this shoulder. If there is more than one shoulder,
it would still be considered a double window if the highest shoulder does
not overlap the waists to the left and right. This is shown in Exhibit
8.12(B).
Double window tops are shown in Exhibits 8.12(C) and 8.12(D). The
double window top is formed when:
1. during an uptrend the left shoulder (shown by 51) is below the fol­
lowing waist (shown by WI) and
2. the next shoulder (at 52) is also below WI'
In other words, the shoulders at 51 and 52 that surround the inter­
vening waist (WI) are both under WI' Exhibit 8.12(D) illustrates how it
is also a double window top if the lowest waist in a group of waists is
still higher than the two shoulders at SI and 52'
Exhibit 8.13 shows how a double window bottom unfolds in a three-
19.5
19.0
18.5
18.0
17.5
17.0
16.5
16.0
15.5
15.0
14.5
MAYAPRFEB MAR
Double Window Bottom
JAN
CRUDE OIL - JUNE 1994 - 15 CENT KAGI
DECNOV
19.5
19.0
18.5
18.0
17.5
17.0
16.5
16.0
15.5
15.0
14.5
MetaStock by EQUIS Int'l
EXHIBIT 8.13. Double Window Bottom, Crude Oil-June 1994, 15 Cent Kagi
230 The Disparity Index and New Price Charts
step process. First, we see a low waist at WI. The next step is to compare
the waist (WI) to the next shoulder or group of shoulders. In this chart,
a series of shoulders marked 1 through 5 was built during February and
March. Note how waist WI was above the highest shoulder 54. Finally,
after the highs of these shoulders are exceeded, we see if the next waist
(W2) is higher than the highest shoulder (which was shoulder 4). Since
this criterion was met, we have a double window bottom. In this chart
it is also interesting to see how the support from December through
January became converted to resistance, as evidenced by shoulders 1
through 5. The market breaks this resistance area, and the double win­
dows are two bullish signals.
In Exhibit 8.14, in late 1993, we see a double window top. This pattern
was formed since the lowest waist (at 2) was above the surrounding
shoulders at 1 and 3. Another double window top unfolded in early 1994.
For that window we can easily see how shoulder A was below the next
group of waists (at B and C) but it is not as clear that shoulder D is below
B. However, the low at B was 114-6/32nds and the high at D was
BONDS - JUNE 1994, 24/32 KAGI
119
118
117
116
115
114
113
112
111
110
109
108
107
106
105
104
103
102
101
MetaStock by EQUIS Int'l
EXHIBIT 8.14. Double Window Tops, Bonds-June 1994, 24/32 Kagi
119
118
117
116
115
114
113
112
111
110
109
108
107
106
105
104
103
102
101
Kagi Charts 231
114-1/32nd. Thus, there was a 5/32nd price gap between the lowest waist
at B and the next shoulder at D. As a result, a double window top was
completed. The ovals that I used to illustrate the two double windows
in this chart are the traditional method used by the Japanese to show
double windows.
Trendlines
As shown in Exhibit 8.15, the highs during the decline that began in late
1992 were defined by a downward sloping resistance line. Of interest
during this decline is that the rebounds (shown by 51 through 55) pushed
up halfway or less into kagi lines 1 through 6. This showed that the
counterattacks by the bulls were relatively feeble. The first sign that the
bulls were starting to get a grip on this market was that the low at Y was
not lower than the low at X. This was the first time in many months that
a lower low was not formed. Areas X and Y formed a double bottom.
MetaStock by EQUIS Int'l
EXHIBIT 8.15. Support and Resistance Lines, Arngen-3% Kagi, Daily
AMGEN (3% KAGI-CLS)
40
35
65
70
55
50
75
45
60
oJ A SA M JMo J
40
50
70
65
55
35
75
60
45
232 The DisparityIndex and New Price Charts
This provided enough of a base for a minor rally. This rally's support
area was a rising trendline that started at Y. Another rising trendline was
formed with the ascending lows from August.
The change of polarity principle can be used (where prior support
becomes resistance and vice versa) with kagi charts since a prior support
of resistance area is so evident on a kagi chart. For example, in Exhibit
8.16, we can see how resistance areas near $45 and $50 became converted
to support areas.
Tweezers
As discussed above, support and resistance areas often become very clear
on the kagi chart. Exhibit 8.17 shows a double top, or what the Japanese
call a tweezers top. Of interest is that, as annotated on the candle chart
of Wal-Mart, there was also a series of topping patterns based on the
candles. Note how confirmation of the double top on the kagi chart did
50
t5
60
to
55
65
A J A 0 N r M MJ A Sr M
Resistance
A M J A S 0 J
UNION PACIFIC $2 KAGI
50
to
t5
55
60
65
MetaStock by EQUIS Int'l
EXHIBIT 8.16. Change of Polarity Principle, Union Pacific-$2 Kagi, Daily
Kagi Charts 233
Wal-Mart - TWEEZERS TOP
i ~ ~Hanging Man
~ Haram 0.*+at 'l'+¢. ~LOng Upper Shadow
32.5 '" .a" +.r. ~ V·+ t:', 32.59<10 .-t- If 01·~'.if ~~ ,30.0 , Black • 30.0Candles , \II
27.5
0
0
'Ti++,+o.o..++O'*.+ 27.5
J93 r 08 16 22 t1 08 15 22 29 A 12 19 26 t1 10
$1 KAGI CHART
.> ~
r- (ILl
Tweezers Top
33 r-
~ 33
32 f- 32
31 r- 31
30 r- '--- r--- 30
29 f- 29
28 f- - 28
27 f- - 27
f- -
rEB t1FlR APR t1FlY
MelaSlock by EQUIS Inl'l
EXHIBIT 8.17. Tweezers Top, Wal-Mart-Candle Chart and $1 Kagi Chart, Daily
I
not come until early April, whereas the candle signals gave earlier clues
of a topping out process. This reflects a limitation of the kagi chart insofar
as trend reversals are usually given later in the move. Kagi charts (like
the three-line break and renko charts) are not for those who are trying
to pick exact tops or bottoms, but who are interested in catching the
"meat" of the move.
Three-Buddha and Reverse Three-Buddha
The basic three-Buddha and reverse (or inverted) three-Buddha patterns
are illustrated in Exhibit 8.18. These patterns are the same as the Western
head and shoulders and inverted head and shoulders patterns. The sell
signal is sent when the "right shoulder" of the three Buddha is pierced.
In Exhibit 8.19, I show some ways traders can determine if the three­
Buddha top can be more bearish or a reverse three-Buddha more bullish.
For example, Exhibit 8.19(A) illustrates how the rebound from the right
Buddha stalled under the center of the prior long kagi line. This reflected
234 The DisparityIndex and New Price Charts
-- ------ Sell -- ------ Buy
(A)
Basic Three Buddha Pattern
(B)
Basic ReverseThree Buddha
EXHIBIT 8.18. Basic Three Buddha and Reverse Three Buddha Patterns
EXHIBIT 8.19. Variations on Three Buddhas Patterns
a weak bullish attack. Exhibit 8.19(B) reflects the underlying strength of
the market since the selloff held above the prior long kagi line's midpoint.
Exhibit 8.19(C) and (0) illustrates how three Buddha's can have the extra
importance obtained by a two-level break.
A three-Buddha top is shown in Exhibit 8.20. The first bearish signal
was given with the break of the uptrend support line. More confirmation
came with the one-level break. For traders who prefer even more bearish
corroboration, the two-level break could have been viewed as extra con­
firmation of a top.
1st level
(B)
Right Buddha holds
above center of prior line
(0)
Two Level Break
of Reverse Three Buddha Pattern
1st level------
2nd level
(C)
Two Level Break
of Three Buddha Pattern
(A)
Right Buddha fails
under center of prior line
Kagi Charts 235
Record Sessions
20.0
16.5
20.5
21. 0
18.5
17.5
18.0
17.0
19.0
19.5
NS 0Fl
Two-Level Break
.-.-.-- Broke Trendline
- One-Level Break
Fl M
DEC 93 CRUDE OIL 3% KAGI
F M
~"'B"ddh.T""
Jo
16.5
20.0
17.0
20.5
17.5
19.0
18.0
18.5
21. 0
19.5
MetaStock by EQUIS Int'l
EXHIBIT 8.20. Three-Buddha Top, December 1993 Crude Oil
Exhibit 8.21 displays a classic inverted three-Buddha pattern where
the two waists at WI and W2 are about the same price. By breaking above
shoulders 51 and 52 (shown at the arrow) the inverted three-Buddha
pattern was confirmed with a two-level break. Note how the old resis­
tance area at shoulders 51 and 52 became support and the market con­
tinued to advance with a series of higher waists and higher shoulders.
A key element used by Japanese traders in candles and kagi charts is the
concept of record sessions. These are the same record sessions as dis­
cussed in Chapter 3, on candlestick patterns. In the context of kagi charts,
record sessions are the counting of the shoulders or the waists. As shown
in Exhibit 8.22, a sequence of nine higher shoulders (not necessarily con­
secutive) is called nine record session highs. Likewise, a group of nine
lower waists is called nine record session lows. The Japanese view a
market that has about nine record highs or lows as a time to look for a
countertrend move.
236 The DisparityIndex and NewPrice Charts
DOW JONES (25PT KAGI)
3950
3900
3850
3800
3750
3700
3650
3600
3550
3500
3450
3400
3350
3300
3250
3200
3150
9 Lower Waists = 9 Record Lows
A M
9
MJ A SON 0 F
9 Higher Shoulders =9 Record Highs
A SON J F M A
'::::
(~ II ~ .;
~Three-Buddha
J J
EXHIBIT 8.22. Record Session High and Lows
As shown in Exhibit 8.23, in early 1992, the market formed an inverted
three-Buddha pattern. From there, the bulls took the market from near
$30 to $43. The rally unfolded with nine record session highs. After the
ninth record high, prices stalled, and in early 1993, they formed a double
top near $43.
Although most Japanese traders use Kagi charts built from daily or
3950
3900
3850
3800
3750
3700
3650
3600
3550
3500
3450
3400
3350
3300
3250
3200
3150
MetaStock by EQUIS Int'l
EXHIBIT 8.21. Inverted Three-Buddha, Dow Jones-25 Point Kagi
Kagi Charts 237
43.0
42.5
42.0
41. 5
41. 0
40.5
40.0
39. 5
39.0
38.5
38.0
37.5
37.0
36.5
36.0
35.5
35.0
34. 5
34. 0
33. 5
33. 0
32.5
32. 0
31. 5
31. 0
30.5
PEPSI (3% KAGI)
8 9
7
MetaStock by EQUIS Int'l
5 6
4
32
\ II u;Inverted
~ Three Buddha
43. 0
42.5
42.0
41. 5
41. 0
40.5
40.0
39.5
39.0
38.5
38.0
37.5
37.0
36.5
36.0
35. 5
35. 0
34. 5
34.0"
33. 5
33.0
32. 5
32. 0
31. 5
31. 0
30.5
EXHIBIT 8.23. Record Session Highs, Pepsi-3% Kagi, Daily
weekly closes, kagi charts can be used on an intra-day basis just as point
and figure charts can be used on a daily or intra-day basis. Exhibit 8.24
shows a five minute kagi chart. This means that the close of each five
minute segment during the day is used to compose the kagi chart. All
the rules to draw the kagi chart and any of the trading techniques pre­
viously addressed can be used on an intra-day kagi chart. In this chart
we see an evident resistance area near 453 in late April and early May.
An ascending support line was punctured on May 6th. Just before the
break of this support line the market reached a new high for the prior
move (at X) and from there a series of nine lower lows emerged. This
formed 9 record session lows and increased the likelihood of a bounce.
In addition, the lows made on May 9 and 10 formed a double window
bottom.
Exhibit 8.25 shows one of the key advantages of kagi charts-it allows
a more detailed analysis of markets, such as mutual funds, that have only
closing prices. In this example of the Magellen Fund there various kagi
techniques that could have been used to signal a top towards the end of
1993. These signals included:
SP JUNE (0.5 PT KAGI)
5 minute Intra-Day
453.5
453.0
452.5
452.0
451.5
451.0
450.5
450.0
449.5
449.0
448.5
448.0
447.5
447.0
446.5
446.0
445.5
445.0
444.5
444.0
443.5
443.0
442.5
442.0
441.5
76
75
74
73
72
71
70
69
68
67
66
65
64
63
62
1009
J
3
05 06
1994
M A Mo J
May
03 04
E
This line
breaks
middle of
prior long
line G'
D
i I
02
1993
Rising support line
c
29
Long Line 1
M M J J SON
B'
April
A
25 26 28
J J
A'
L-r---r----,,-1 ~,'----r-_____,-___r_______,__r..,._,..__r_+____,._._-__r-...,.._---------'
SON J
453.5
453.0
452.5
452.0
451.5
451.0
450.5
450.0
449.5
449.0
448.5
448.0
447.5
447.0
446.5
446.0
445.5
445.0
444.5
444.0
443.5
443.0
442.5
442.0
441.5
MAGELLEN FUND - DAILY (2% KAGI)
-------------------------------=l
72-
63
62
71
70
69
68
67
66
65
64
75
7'1
73
EXHIBIT 8.24. Intraday Kagi charts, S & P June 1994-5 Minute Kagi Chart
MelaSlock by EQUIS Inl'l
EXHIBIT 8.25. Magellen Fund-2% Kagi, Daily
238
Practice Session for the Kagi Chart 239
1. The market relayed its underlying strength when price retracements
held above the middle of long kagi lines marked by 1, 2 and 3. How­
ever, when the bears were aggressive enough to drag prices under
the middle of long kagi line 3 (at the arrow) it was a clue that the
underlying market condition had changed.
2. The series of ascending highs at A through E and rising lows A' to F'
represented a firming market. Warning of a loss of upside drive came
via the lower high at F and the lower low at G'.
3. From late 1992 to late 1993 the length of the yang portion of the kagi
lines was longer than the yin portion of those lines. This represented
that the bulls were more in control of the market than were the bears.
But with long kagi line 3 (the same line that broke under the middle
of the prior long kagi line), the longer yin portion of the kagi line,
relative to the yang line, reflected a time when the bears had grabbed
control of the market.
lOyama, Kenji. Hanawa Kurenai Yanagiwa Midori, pg. 51.
PRACTICE SESSION FOR THE
KAGICHART
..............................................................................
On a photocopy of the graph supplied on page 243 or on a piece of.
plain paper, create a kagi chart from the data shown in Table 8.2. The
chart's scale should be from a low of $34 to a high of $40. The session
numbers on the right side of Table 8.2 show where the new kagi line is
extended as described in the answer chart (Exhibit 8.26, following the
practice pages). Be sure you try to draw this practice kagi chart on your
own, before looking at the answer chart.
241
242 The DisparityIndex and New Price Charts
TABLE 8.2 Data for Construction of Kagi Chart
Session Date Close Session Date Close
1 04/04/94 35.750 33 05/19/94 39.500
2 04/05/94 37.250 34 05/20/94 38.875
3 04/06/94 39.000 35 05/23/94 38.500
4 04/07/94 38.375 36 05/24/94 39.000
5 04/08/94 37.750 37 05/25/94 38.500
6 04/11/94 37.750 38 05/26/94 38.500
7 04/12/94 37.375 39 05/27/94 39.000
8 04/13/94 36.250 40 05/31/94 39.000
9 04/14/94 35.750 41 06/01/94 40.000
10 04/15/94 35.250 42 06/02/94 39.875
11 04/18/94 36.250 43 06/03/94 39.875
12 04/19/94 35.250 44 06/06/94 38.875
13 04/20/94 34.500 45 06/07/94 38.500
14 04/21/94 35.625 46 06/08/94 38.250
15 04/22/94 35.500 47 06/09/94 38.875
16 04/25/94 36.625 48 06/10/94 39.375
17 04/26/94 36.375 49 06/13/94 39.375
18 04/28/94 36.250 50 06114/94 39.750
19 04/29/94 36.875 51 06/15/94 39.500
20 05/02/94 37.250 52 06/16/94 39.375
21 05/03/94 36.875 53 06/17/94 38.500
22 05/04194 36.500 54 06/20/94 37.750
23 05/05/94 37.125 55 06/21/94 37.625
24 05/06/94 36.375 56 06/22/94 37.500
25 05/09194 35.875 57 06/23/94 36.500
26 05/10/94 36.625 58 06/24/94 35.000
27 05/11194 37.125 59 06/27/94 36.625
28 05/12/94 36.250 60 06/28/94 36.000
29 05/13/94 37.000 61 06/29/94 35.875
30 05/16/94 37.250 62 06/30/94 35.000
31 05/17/94 37.500 63 07101/94 35.250
32 05/18/94 38.500 64 07105/94 35.125
243
MERRILL LYNCH -- $1 KAGI
40.0 ~
41
n
~o
J
40.0
33"--' 1_481
39.5 ~ 39.5
39.0 3~ I I --~ I I ~ 39.0
32
38.5 t I I
- J.-I4b ~q61 j..--53 ~ 38.5
38.0
35 ~ 38.0
5 31 6~20 55
37.5 f-2~
r
7
b1
56 ~ 37.5
30
27
tTl I 37.0 ~ 159 ~ 37.0
><:I:
I 36.5 ~ I I 11-0=
..-8. I I I I I I ~ 36.5->-l 5700
N?'
36.0 t) r
9
;
I I I I I I I ~ 36.0
3::
(l)
I 1 14 .
'1'1
I I I ~ 35.5s 35.5 1 25
r''<:::;
I 35.0 ~
? 12(j
I I
I I t.-62 ~ 35.0::J"' 10I 58 •.....
"U0
I 34.5 ~ J-----J ~ 34.5S'.....
N I ~;1:::0. III
I 06<.J1 03. 05 08 18 19 21 09 11 23 01 10 17 27 30
CONCLUSION..............................................................................
In this book, I have discussed candlestick charts, the disparity index,
three-line breaks, and renko and kagi charts. With all of these techniques,
the question that may arise is: Which is the best? I cannot say that kagi
charts are better than three-line break or candle charts. They each have
their advantages and uses. For example, kagi, three-line break, and renko
charts are useful for providing a view of the market on a macro scale.
Candlestick charts can be used on a micro scale by providing early clues
about market reversals. For example, a member of the Nippon Technical
Analysts Society told me that he uses kagi charts and other Japanese
tools, but waits for a candle signal before placing a trade.
In the Introduction to this book, I quoted a samurai who said that,
"Learning is the gate, not the house. You first have to go through the
gate to get to the house." Now, I have taken you through the gate and
up to the door of the house. However, as a Japanese proverb states,
"Your teacher can lead you to the door; acquiring of learning then rests
on you."
With the help of this book, I hope that you have learned enough to
lay the foundation of basic concepts on which you can build. The tech­
niques I examined should be viewed as basic tools that you can adjust
to your individual trading needs and style. There are so many ways to
use these exciting and powerful tools.
Each trader will find that experimenting with the three-line break,
renki, and kagi charts will depend on individual factors such as trading
style, risk adversity, and trading time frame orientation. There are no
247
248 Conclusion
right or wrong ways to use the new price charts and I am sure many of
you will come up with your own trading ideas.
As one of my contacts in the Nippon Technical Analysts Association
wrote to me: "All my friends use different techniques to confirm their
ideas." The tools discussed in this book are the plants that, when joined
with the fertile soil of your own ideas, should help you reap a rich harvest
of valuable trading concepts.
• •• • • • • • • •• •• • • •• •• • • • • • • • • •• • • • • • •• • • •• • •
GLOSSARY
• • • • •• •• • • •• • • • •• •• • • • • • • • • •• • •• • • •• • • •• • •
~ .........................................
TECHNICAL TERMS WITH
VISUAL REFERENCES..............................................................................
This is a glossary of the patterns and the new charting methods dis­
cussed in this book. Since I do not discuss all the candle patterns in this
book, for those who want a more complete glossary of the candle pat­
terns, please see my first book, Japanese Candlestick Charting Techniques.
Boldface, Italicized terms are cross-referenced glossary items.
Anchor chart-this was probably the first chart to graphically display the
importance of the relationship between the open and close. The top
and bottom of the anchor's vertical line are the high and low of that
session. The horizontal line of the anchor line is the open. The arrow
of the anchor line is the close. If the close is higher than the open,
the arrow points up. If the close is lower than the open the arrow
points down.
Anchor Chart (High-Low-Close-Open)
Bar chart-the common chart used in the West. The top and bottom of
the vertical line are the high and low of the session. The horizontal
line on the right of the vertical line is the close and the horizontal line
to the left is the open. The Japanese used bar charts before the more
evolved anchor chart and candle chart replaced the bar chart. In es-
251
----------_ _ ..
252 Glossary: TechnicalTerms with Visual References
sence the bar chart is a less evolved form of charting than the candle
chart. See also anchor chart, pole chart, and stopping chart
Bar Chart (High-Low-Close)
Base price-the starting price in a kagi chart, renko chart, and three-line
chart.
Bearishengulfingpattern-a bearish candle pattern in which during a rally
there is a black real body that envelopes the prior white real body.
The larger the second candle in relation to the first candle, the more
effective the pattern should be. A bearish engulfing pattern should
act as resistance.
Bearish Engulfing Pattern
Black Turnaround Line
Black
_turnaround
line
rWhen this is
broken draw
a black turnaround
line
Black shoes-see "buy when the neck emerges from the white suit with
black shoes" and II sell if the black shoe comes out of a black suit
after a neck"
Black suit-see II sell if the black shoe comes out of a black suit after a
neck'I
Black turnaroundline-the black line in a three-line break chart that breaks
the low of the prior three consecutive white lines. See also white
turnaround line.
Blended Candle
High of the pattern
(B)
Blended candle
(A)
Candle pattern
Bullish EngUlfing Pattern
----------------------------o
Glossary: Technical Terms with Visual References 253
I I I
Blendedcandle-a single candle line built by combining two or more candle
lines of a candle pattern. The blended candle can be used to help
determine whether a group of candle lines is bullish or bearish. To
construct the blended candle:
1. The open of the blended candle is the open of the first session of
the candle pattern.
2. The top of the upper shadow of the blended candle is the highest
high of the candle pattern (i.e., the top of the highest upper
shadow).
3. The low of the blended candle's lower shadow is the lowest low
of all the sessions of that pattern (i.e., the bottom of the lowest
lower shadow).
4. The close of the blended candle is the close of the candle pattern's
last session.
C~ C --------------------------
o --------------------------------
~-~~~:;::e-::~:::-------------
Bullish engulfing pattern-a bottom reversal signal that is composed of two
candle lines, the first is black and the second is white. The white real
body of this pattern wraps around, or engulfs, the prior black real
body. The second real body of this pattern (that is the white candle)
should be much larger than the first (i.e., black) real body. A bullish
engulfing pattern should act as support.
"Buy when the neck emergesfrom the white suit with blackshoes" -an expres­
sion used by Japanese technicians to describe a bullish three-line break
chart pattern. A short black line is sometimes called a black shoe, a
254 Glossary: Technical Terms with Visual References
white turnaround line (a white line that surpasses the prior three black
lines) is sometimes likened to a white suit and a small white line that
follows a white turnaround line is called a neck since it looks like a
neck coming out the white suit.
"Buy When the Neck Emerges
from the White Suit with Black Shoes"
Neck
/ (Buy Signal)
White
/suit
Black/
Shoe
Candlestick chart (also called candle chart)-the most popular method of
charting by the Japanese. Used since the 19th century, a candlestick
chart uses the same data as a bar chart (the open, high, low, and
close). However, the candle chart gives more graphic information
about the market's health by segmenting individual candle lines into
the real body and shadows.
Candle Stick Chart (High-Low-Close-Open)
Change ofpolarity-a term used to describe the technical principle by which
old resistance should be converted to new support and old support
should be transformed to new resistance.
Change of Polarity
" II II III
'II' III' III' " New Resistance
Former Support II I'll
II "
'I "Former Resistance " 'III
Glossary: Technical Terms with Visual References 255
Collapsing doji star-a top reversal signal made up of three lines. The first
is a tall white candle after which the market gaps lower via a falling
doji. The third candle of this pattern is a black real body session that
gaps under the doji's session. The three candles that make up this
pattern are the same three as those needed for an evening doji star
(See evening Star). The difference is that the evening doji star has the
doji above the tall white real body while the collapsing doji star has
the doji gapping under, instead of above, the first white candle.
Collapsing Dogi Star
a- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ---------------------
Window
-----------/
-f- - - - - -Window
--------/
Ii _~-------------
Dark cloud cover-during an uptrend there is a tall white candle followed
by a session that opens at a new high. But by the end of that session
the market closes as a black candle with a close well inside the prior
long white candle's real body. The classic dark cloud cover's second
session should close under the midpoint of the prior white candle.
As a general rule, the deeper the close of the dark cloud cover's
second session pushes into the white candle, the more bearish the
signal. In the stock market, it could still be viewed as a dark cloud
cover if the second session's open is above the prior session's close
Dark Cloud Cover
256 Glossary: Technical Terms with Visual References
(instead of the prior session's high). Dark cloud covers should also
be resistance.
Dead cross-a bearish indication formed when a short-term moving av­
erage crosses under a long-term moving average. See also golden cross.
Dead Cross
----- Short term Moving Average
-- Long term Moving Average
Disparity index or disparity ratio-an oscillator that compares the close of
the current session to a moving average on a percentage basis. For
example, a 25-day disparity index of -10% means that today's price
is 10% under the 25-day moving average. Some of the ways the dis­
parity index can be used include: as an overbought/oversold indicator,
as a signal of trend direction, and as a tool to gauge divergence. See
also divergence index.
Disparity Index
-------r-------- +15
+10
+5
- ----------------- 0
-5
-10
15
Divergenceindex-a percentage oscillator calculated by taking the current
price and dividing it by the chosen moving average. Thus, a 25-day
divergence of 110% would mean that the close today is 110% of the
25-day moving average. The divergence is the same as the disparity
Double Windows
High_
{
Low,
Open
and Close
Double Window Top
Low-
Open and}
Close
Double Window Bottom
.-- -
L
- .--
'--
W1 51 W2
-_._--- --- -- -----_. ------ --'-- -- -------
W1 ;--
f
52
'"- '--
'-- -
---------,,---- 115
110
105
100
95
90
----------- 85
Divergence Index
Glossary: TechnicalTerms with Visual References 257
Dojl
index, it is just scaled differently. That is, a 25-day divergence index
reading of 110% is the same as a 25-day disparity index of +10%.
Doji-a session in which the open and close are the same. It reflects
indecision and is a clue that the force behind the prior trend may be
dwindling, especially if the doji comes after a tall white real body or
after an extended move. Doji can also be used as a resistance area.
Double windows-a pattern in kagi charts. Double windows can be top or
bottom reversal patterns. A double window bottom is constructed
when the market forms a left waist (shown as WI) that is above the
next shoulder (shown as 51) and the following waist (shown by W2)
is also above shoulder 51' A double window top is completed when,
during an uptrend, the left shoulder (shown by 51) is below the fol-
258 Glossary: TechnicalTerms with Visual References
lowing waist (shown by W1) and the next shoulder (at 52) is also below
waist W1.
Engulfing patterns-See bearish engulfing pattern, bullish engulfing pat­
tern, last engulfing bottom, and last engulfing top .
Evening star-a top reversal pattern made of three candle lines. The cri­
teria for this pattern include an up-trending market in which a long
white candle is followed by a small real body (which can be black or
white) that should not touch the real body of the first candle. The
third candle of this pattern is a black real body that does not touch
the real body of the second candle and then closes well into the white
candle line that made up the first candle of this pattern. If the second
candle of the evening star is a doji instead of a small real body then
the pattern is an evening doji star.
Evening Star
Can be white or black.
if this is a Doji
pattern is an
Evening Doji Star
"',
~
Gappingdoji-a doji session that gaps lower during a declining market.
Gapping Doji
- Window
+,
Glossary: TechnicalTerms with Visual References 259
Golden cross-the Japanese term for when a short-term moving average
crosses above a long-term moving average. See also dead cross.
Golden Cross
~'
Golden ~,'
Cross ~,'
/
-, \~///,'..,
.......... ....------..-.... _----------
Dead
Cross
----- Short term Moving Average
-- Long term Moving Average
Hammer-a bullish candle line. The hammer has four criteria:
1. the prior trend must be down
2. a small real body (black or white) that is near the upper end of the
trading range
3. a long lower shadow usually three times or more the length of the
real body
4. little or no upper shadow
The hanging man and hammer have the same shape. What differen­
tiates one from the other is that the hammer follows a downtrend
while the hanging man is after an uptrend.
Hangingman-a bearish candle line with confirmation of the next session.
The hanging man has five criteria:
1. the prior trend must be up
Hanging Man
Black
~orWhite
r'
Close should be
_ under hanging
man's real body
,I
I
I
I
Hammer
I
I
;0
Black
or White
260 Glossary: Technical Terms with Visual References
2. a small real body (black or white) that is near the upper end of the
trading range
3. a long lower shadow usually three times or more the length of the
real body and
4. little or no upper shadow
5. bearish confirmation of the next session with a close under the
hanging man's real body.
The hanging man and hammer look the same. However, the hammer
comes after a downtrend and the hanging man emerges after an up­
trend.
Harami-this dual line candle pattern has an unusually long real body
(white or black) followed by a very small real body (black or white)
that holds within the first candle's real body. The classic harami should
have the second session's real body in the middle of the first real
body. See also harami cross, high price harami, and low price harami.
Harami
Harami
Cross
1
+
T
Black or
White
High Price
Harami
Either
candle
, can be
black
or white
Harami cross-if the second candle of a harami is a doji instead of a small
real body, the pattern is called a harami cross.
High price harami-a harami in which the second real body of the harami
is near the upper end of the first real body. See also low price harami.
High-wave candle-a candle line with usually long upper and lower shad­
ows. The high-wave candle's long lower shadow shows buyers enter
(or sellers retreat) as the market moves lower, but the long upper
shadow indicates a rejection of higher price levels. A high wave candle
shows the trend has shifted into a neutral posture since it reflects a
market that is in a state of confusion.
High-Wave Candles
(
Real body can be black or white
Glossary: Technical Terms with Visual References 261
Inflectionline-the short horizontal line in a kagi chart.
Inflection Line
1 r--
~
-
-Inflection
lines at
1,2,and3 ~
2
KagiChart
Kagi chart-One of the three types of Japanese charts (see also renko and
three-line break charts) that does not have time on the horizontal axis.
The basic premise of the kagi chart is that the thickness and the di­
rection of the kagi lines are dependent on the market's action. If the
market continues to move in the direction of the prior kagi line, that
line is extended. However, if the market reverses by a predetermined
amount, a new kagi line is drawn in the next column in the opposite
direction. When prices penetrate a prior low or high, the thickness of
the kagi line changes. The kagi chart can be constructed using per­
centage or fixed amount reversals. See also inflection line, yang line,
and yin line.
Kagi Chart
51 51
53 53
5~ 52
51 51
50 50
19 19
18 81 18
82 83
17 17
16 86 16
15 84 15
11 w1 w2 11
13 13
12 w3 12w4 Ws11 11
10 10
f\ M J J SON J F M f\
262 Glossary: Technical Terms with Visual References
Lastengulfingbottom-this a bullish candle pattern that has the same group
of candle lines that form the bearish engulfing pattern (a large black
candle that engulfs the prior white candle). However, the bearish
engulfing pattern appears after a rising market while the last engulfing
pattern appears after a falling market. See also last engulfing top.
Last EngUlfing Bottom
Last engulfing top-this bearish candle pattern has the same configuration
as the bullish engulfing pattern (a large white candle that envelops a
small black real body). However, the last engulfing top appears after
an uptrend, whereas the bullish engulfing pattern appears during a
price decline. See also last engulfing bottom.
Last EngUlfing Top
Long black candle-a candle line with an extended black real body. This
means that the close is near the session's low and the open was near
the high. A long black candle should have its real body at least three
times larger than surrounding real bodies. Long black candles can be
used as a tool to confirm a resistance area, as a confirmation of a break
of support and the long black real body can be used as a resistance
area. The resistance set up by a long black candle should be from 50%
within the candle up to the top of the candle (including the upper
shadow). See also long white candle.
Long Black Candle
Long »>"
Black
candle
Glossary: Technical Terms with Visual References 263
Long white candle-a candle with a tall white real body in which the open
of the session is near the low, and the close is near the high. The
length of the real body should be at least three times the length of
recent real bodies. Some of the uses of long white real bodies include
helping to confirm support and reinforcing the importance of a break­
out from a resistance area. The long white candle can also be used as
a support area. The support should be from midway of the white
candle down to the bottom of the white candle (this includes the
bottom of the lower shadow). See also long black candle.
Long White Candle
Long White
-candle
Low price harami-a harami in which the second real body of the pattern
is near the bottom end of the first real body. See also high price har­
ami.
Low Price Harami
Either candle can be black or white
Morning star-a bottom reversal pattern composed of three candle lines.
During a downtrend there is a black real body. This is the first part
of the pattern. The second session is a small real body candle that
does not touch the first (Le. black) real body. The second real body
can be white or black. The last session of the morning star is a long
white real body that ideally should not touch the second real body.
This long white real body should close well into the first candle's
black real body to complete this pattern. If the second candle of this
pattern is a doji instead of a small real body then this pattern becomes
a morning doji star.
Neck-see "buy when the neck emerges from the white suit with black
shoes" and "sell if the black shoe comes out of a black suit after a
neck'
New Price Charts-used to describe a chart in which a new price, high or
low, has to be reached before another line can be placed on the chart.
Morning Star
I
I
,~¢
/Can be white or
black. If this is a
doji, the pattern
is a morning
doji star.
264 Glossary: Technical Terms with Visual References
Japanese new price charts include the kagi chart, renko chart, and
three-line break chart.
Piercingpattern-This is a two candle pattern that emerges after a down­
trend. The first part of this pattern is a long black real body. In the
next session the market opens at a new low for the move, but by the
close of the session the market forms a white candle that closes 50%
or more into the prior black real body.
Piercing Pattern
Close Above Black
Candles Center
/
Pole charts-a chart constructed of the high and low of each session. It
was the second type of chart used by the Japanese. See also anchor
charts, bar charts, candle charts, and stopping charts.
Pole Charts (High-Low)
H
L
Real body-the rectangular portion of the candlestick line. The top and
bottom of the real body represent the open and close of the session.
If the sessions' close is under the open, the real body is filled in, with
Real Body
{~
_CI O S e
Real
Body
-Open
I-open
'-Close
Glossary: TechnicalTerms with Visual References 265
the top of the real body the open and the bottom of the real body the
close. If the session's close is above the open, then the real body is
empty with the top of the real body at the close and the bottom at
the open. The size and color of the real body give important clues
about the health of the market. See also candlestick charts, long black
real bodies, long white real bodies, and spinning tops.
Record sessions-in Japan, a new high or a new low is referred to as a
record session. In candle theory, a market that reaches eight to ten
consecutive (or almost consecutive) record session highs or record
session lows is a time when the market is overextended.
Record Sessions
10 Record Highs 10
8 i I I
~ I5 6
4 I I
3 I I
I I
1 2 I
I I I
I
Low
10 Record Lows
High
I!II I I I
II3 4
I5 6 7
8
11 I
10
Renko chart-one of the three kinds of Japanese charts (see also kagi and
three-line break charts) that does not take time into account for con­
structing the chart. Each line in a renko chart is called a brick. Rising
bricks are shown as white and falling bricks are shown as black. A
new white (black) brick is added when a rally (selloff) continues in
the same direction once a fixed amount has been exceeded. In renko
charts, the portion of the rally or selloff that does not exceed the fixed
266 Glossary: TechnicalTerms with Visual References
amount is not shown. In renko charts, each renko brick is the same
size.
Renko Chart
122
121
120
119
118
117
116
115
114
113
112
111
110
109
108
107
106
105
104
103
102
'93 '94
122
121
120
119
118
117
116
115
114
113
112
111
110
109
108
107
106
105
104
103
102
"Sell if the black shoe comes out of a black suit after a neck"-an expression
used in Japan to denote a bearish three-line chart pattern. A short
black line is sometimes called a black shoe, a black turnaround line (a
black line that surpasses the prior three white lines) is sometimes
called a black suit, and a small white line is sometimes called a neck,
since it looks like a neck coming out the white suit.
"Sell if the Black Shoe Comes
Out of a Black Suit After a Neck"
Neck
Black
/SUit
(Sell Signall--P"
Black Shoe
Glossary: Technical Terms with Visual References 267
Shadows-The lines above and below the real body. The top of the upper
shadow is the high of the session and the bottom of the lower shadow
is the low of the session. Long upper shadows reflect that the market
rejected higher prices. Long lower shadows show that the selling
pressure evaporated (or the bears were overwhelmed by the bulls) at
lower prices. See also candlestick chart and high wave candle.
Shadows
low
lower
Shadow
High
low
Shooting star-a bearish candle line with its long upper shadow candle
with a small real body (black or white) that is near the bottom end of
the trading range. Since the shooting star is a top reversal signal, it
should appear after an uptrend.
Shooting Star
-L Black or
LJ-White
Shoulders-a prior high in kagi charting.
Shoulders
S1
S1 to S4Are Shoulders.
268 Glossary: Technical Terms with Visual References
Spinning top-a candle line with a small real body. It is a sign that the
prior move may be losing its momentum.
Spinning Tops
I Real body"," be
¢-blaCkor white.
Spring-a bullish signal where the market breaks under an important
support area and then "springs" back above the broken support area.
See also upthrust.
Spring
Support
"'-Spring
Stoppingchart-a chart that uses only dosing prices. It was the first type
of chart used by the Japanese. See also anchor chart, bar chart, candle
chart, and pole chart.
Stopping Chart
1~Y\r1
Three-linebreak-one of the three types of Japanese charts (see also renko
and kagi charts) that does not consider time. In other words there is
no time scale on the horizontal axis. Rising lines are shown as white
and falling lines as black. When starting to draw a graph, the first
line is a rising white line if it rises, or the first line is a black falling
line if it declines. Then, if the price exceeds the first line, a new white
line is drawn in the next column. If instead, the next price was below
the first line, then a black line is drawn in the next column. A new
line is only drawn when a new high or new low is touched. To de­
termine if the market has started down, the low price of the last three
rising lines must be broken on the downside during the fall. On the
other hand, to determine if a decline has ended, the highest price of
Glossary: Technical Terms with Visual References 269
Three-LineBreak
6.5
7.5
B.O
6.0
7.0
Higher yields = lower Prices.
Sell signals given with
white turnaround lines
lower yields = Higher Prices.
Buy signals given with black
turnaround lines.
6.5
6.0
the last three declining lines must be exceeded on the upside. See
also black and white turnaround lines.
7.0
7.5
B.O
193
Trend-since most of the candle signals are reversals, there must be a
prior trend to reverse for a candle pattern or candle line to have mean­
ing. For instance a doji in the middle of a trading zone would not be
an important trading signal since there is no trend to reverse. Another
instance where trend is important is the hammer and hanging man
lines. Both of these lines look the same, but one is a bullish hammer
if it comes after a downtrend, and the other is a hanging man if comes
after an uptrend.
Turnaroundline-See black turnaround line and white turnaround line.
Two blackgappingcandles-two black real body candles that follow a falling
window.
Two Black Gapping Candles
I Falling
I /Window-------------- /
------,------
,
270 Glossary: Technical Terms with Visual References
Upthrust-a bearish signal insofar as the market breaks through important
resistance, but then fails to hold the new highs and pulls back under
the previously pierced resistance area. See also spring.
Upthrust
Resistance ---,---y----yl..------
Waists-a prior low in kagi charting.
Waists
W1 to W4 are Waists
White suit-see "buy when the neck emergesfrom the white suit with black
shoes" and "sell if the black shoe come out of a black suit after a
neck'
White turnaroundline-the white line in a three-linebreakchart that exceeds
the high of the prior three consecutive black lines. See also black
turnaround line.
White Turnaround Line
Windows-a continuation pattern in candle charts. A window is the same
as a gap in Western technicals. There are rising and falling windows.
A rising window is a bullish continuation pattern that is formed when
the top of yesterday's upper shadow is under the low of the current
lower shadow. A falling window opens when the prior session's low
White
turnaround
line
Whenthis ­
is exceeded
draw a white
turnaround
line
Glossary: Technical Terms with Visual References 271
(i.e., the bottom of the lower shadow) is above the top of the current
upper shadow.
Windows
I I
Upper Shadow of (1) I I I Window Acts
does not Touch Lower I as Support
Shadow of (2) ~:::::::::::~i;;!:J:::::I'!::::/
I
Close Above Bottom
of Window Keeps
Uptrend Intact
Rising Window
Close Under Top
of Window Keeps
Downtrend in Force
I
Window Acts
Lower Shadow of (1) \ as Resistancedoes not Touch Upper
Shadow of (2) ~:::::::::::~;~~::::::::~l:::: /
I I I
I
Falling Window
Yang line-in kagi charts, another name for the thick portion of the kagi
line. See also yin line
Yang Line
Yin line-in kagi charts, another name for the thin segment of the kagi
line. See also yang line.
Yin Line
INDEX..............................................................................
A
Abandoned baby, morning star
and, 117-118
Accumulation, real body and,
42-45
Aggression:
hammers and, 57
windows and, 104
American Cyanamid, 222
Amex, 34
Amgen, 32, 58, 125, 132
Analysis ofStock Price in Japan
(NTAA), 166n3
Anchor charts:
candle chart compared, 37-38
candle chart evolution and, 17
Apple, 96, 118
AST,92
Aurora Electric, 22
B
Balance of power, in stock
markets, 153
Bank America, 24
Bar charts, 8
candle chart compared, 3-4, 35
candle chart evolution, 17
Baruch, Bernard, 15
Base price:
kagi charts, 216-219
renko chart, 200-203
three-line break chart, 168-170
Black real body, described, 18, 19.
Seealso Long black real bodies;
Real body
Black shoe, three-line break
charts, trading techniques
with, 184-186
Black suits, three-line break
charts, trading techniques
with, 184-186
Black turnaround line, three-line
break charts, 173
Blended candle:
dark cloud cover, 68-69
described, 36-37
morning star and, 121
Bond markets. See also Futures
markets; Stock markets
candle charts and, 9
hanging man and, 62
harami,93
kagi charts, 228, 230
last engulfing pattern, 86
long white real bodies, 27, 28
renko charts, 204, 205
shooting stars, 66
stops, 131
three-line break charts and, 180
trendlines, 140
Bricks, renko chart, 197
Bristol Myers, 35
Buy signals:
kagi charts, 220-221
renko charts, 203-204
three-line break charts
neck, 1$4-186
trading techniques with, 174­
176
three-line break charts and, 181­
182
C
Candle charts:
bar charts compared, 3-4
evolution of, 16-18
anchor chart, 17
bar chart, 17
candle chart, 18
pole chart, 17
stopping chart, 16-17
history of, 13-16
overview of, 7-11
technical picture and, 129-150.
See also Technical picture
three-line break charts and,
trading techniques with,
176-178
three-line break charts
compared, 153
versatility of, 8
Candle lines:
construction of, 18-19
dual candle lines, 68-93. Seealso
Dual candle lines
single candle lines, 56-68. See
also Single candle lines
three or more candle lines, 109­
127. See also Three or more
candle lines
Change, technical picture and,
142-144
Change of polarity principle:
hanging man and, 63
shooting star and, 65
Charts, utility of, 3
Chronology, candle charts and, 19
Citicorp, 26
Classic Western theory. See
Western theory
Closing prices:
candle charts and, 19
harami and, 91
kagi charts, 215
long white real bodies, 20
prior real body compared, 38-40
275
276 Index
Closing (Continued)
renko chart construction, 199­
203
three-line break charts and, 168­
174, 180
windows and, 94-95
Coca Cola, 79
Cocoa, 99, 136
Collapsing doji star, evening star
and, 114-115
Color, of real body, 35-38
Computer:
candle pattern location, 144-145
criteria specification, 145-147
offset trade, 148-149
trade placing, 147-148
Confucius, 129
Congestion band, dark cloud
cover and, 72
Contrarian opinion, Japanese
history and, 14-15
Correction stop location, kagi
charts, 226-227
Crude oil:
candle charts, 36
hanging man and, 61, 62
high-wave candles, 54
kagi charts, 229, 235
price adjustments, 143, 144
record sessions, 126
spinning tops, 43
windows and, 103
D
Daimyo (feudal lords), 13
Dark cloud cover:
described, 68-72
harami and, 91
prevalence of, 75
stops, 130-132
windows and, 97, 103
Data vendor services, described,
19
Daxro, 101
Dead cross, moving averages,
157-158
Dell, 50, 80
Delta, 106, 161, 187
Demand.
See Supply-demand
situation
Deutsche Mark, 52, 65, 81, 83, 164
Directional pattern analysis,
candle chart analysis, 37, 38
Disjointed candles. See Windows
Disney, 67, 116, 158
Disparity index, 153, 159-164
generally, 159
trading with, 159-164
Distribution, real body and, 42-45
Divergence, disparity index, 159­
164
Divergence index, described, 164­
166
Doji,20
collapsing doji star, evening star
and, 114-115
described, 45-50
engulfing patterns and, 82, 83
gapping, windows and, 106-109
gapping doji, evening star and,
115
gravestone doji, record sessions,
124-125
harami and, 88, 91
morning star and, 117
shadows and, 51, 53
three-line break charts and, 180
windows and, 96-97
Double top:
kagi charts, 232-233
three-line break charts, trading
techniques with, 188, 189
Double windows, kagi charts,
227-231. See also Windows
Dow Chemical, 89
Dow Jones, 27, 42, 236
Dual candle lines, 68-93
dark cloud cover, 68-72
engulfing patterns, 76-83
harami, 86-93
last engulfing patterns, 84-86
piercing pattern, 73-76
E
Eastman Kodak, 71, 85
Emotion:
futures market and, 14
markets and, 15-16
piercing pattern and, 75
Engulfing pattern:
described, 76-83
evening star and, 111
windows and, 96
EQUIS International, 11
Equity International Magazine,
190n1
Euroweek (magazine), 4, 5n2
Evening doji star pattern, 48
Evening star, described, 109-116
F
Falling windows. See also
Windows
meaning of, 93, 94, 100-101
morning star and, 118-119
Feudalism, Japan, 13
Fibonacci retracements, 149
Five-year notes, 139
Fixed price kagi charts, percentage
kagi charts and, 220
Flexibility, evening star and, 111­
112
Ford, 176, 182
Foreign exchange market, candle
charts and, 9
The Fountainof Gold- The Three
Monkey Record of Money
(Homma), 14-16, 110
Frequency, of real body, 35-38
Futures markets. See also Bond
markets; Stock markets
candle chart history and, 13
candle charts and, 9
emotion and, 14
engulfing patterns and, 81
Japanese history and, 13-14
prior real body, opening
compared to, 38-39
trends, 138
G
Gap, 82
windows and, 93. See also
Windows
Gapping doji:
evening star and, 115
windows and, 106-109
Gas oil, 87
General Motors, 120, 121, 178, 179
General Re, 23, 90
German Bund, 61
German Mark. See Deutsche Mark
Gold:
emotion and, 15, 16
hammer and, 59
kagi charts, 226
renko charts, 205
stops, 131
windows and, 104
Golden cross, moving averages,
157-158
Gravestone doji:
described, 48, 49
record sessions, 124-125
H
Hammer, 52
described, 56-59
hanging man and, 61
harami and, 90
piercing pattern and, 76
shooting star contrasted, 66-68
three-line break charts and, 178
windows and, 96
Hanging man:
described, 59-64
piercing pattern and, 76
shooting star contrasted, 66-68
three-line break charts and, 178,
179-180
Harami:
described, 86-93
three-line break charts and, 179­
180
windows and, 97, 102-103
Head and shoulders, three­
Buddha pattern, stops, 132­
133
Heinz, 111
High price area, long black real
bodies, 29-30
High-price harami, described, 88
High-wave candles:
morning star and, 117
shadows and, 52-54
shooting star and, 65
windows and, 102
Home Depot, 29, 30
Homma, Munehisa, 14-16, 122
Hoshii, Kazutaka, 5n1, 166n1
Hudson Bay Trading Company, 9
I
IBM, 100, 109
In and out trading, renko charts,
204
Inflection line, kagi charts, 213,
217
Intel, 204
International Paper, 141
Inverted three-Buddha, kagi
charts, 233-235
Iraqi War (1990), 15, 16
Ishii, Katsutoshi, 166n2
J
Janus Fund, 223
Japan:
candle charts and, 4
candle charts history, 13-16
stock market of, 18, 213
Japan EconomicJournal, 5
Japanese CandlestickCharting
Techniques(Nison), 7, 8
Japanese Yen, 65
JCPenney, 117
Johnson and Johnson, 107
K
Kagi charts, 9, 153, 213-245
candle charts compared, 153
construction of, 215-220
first line, 216
generally, 215
percentage charts, 219-220
second line, 216-217
third line, 218-219
overview of, 213-214
practice session for, 241-245
sensitivity of, 154
trading techniques, 220-239
buy and sell signals (Yang and
Yin), 220-221
correction stop location, 226-
227
double windows, 227-231
multi-level breaks, 224
record sessions, 235-239
shoulders and waists, 221-223
three-Buddha and reverse
three-Buddha, 233-235
trend lines, 231-232
tweezers, 232-233
yang and yin length, 224-226
Key charts. See Kagi charts
Kyoho Era, 17
L
Last engulfing patterns, described,
84-86
LeBeau, Charles, 138
Lileo, 177
Line chart. See Stopping chart
Lin Yutang, 8
Long black real bodies, 29-34. See
also Real body
doji and, 47-48
at high price area, 29-30
as resistance, 33-34
resistance confirmation, 30-31
size, frequency, and color, 35-38
support breaking, 31-32
two, windows and, 105-106
Long white real bodies, 20-29. See
also Real body
defined, 20
doji and, 45-46, 47, 51
low price level, 21
resistance breaking, 23-24
size, frequency, and color, 35-38
as support, 25-29
support confirmation, 21-23
windows and, 96-97
Lower shadow, described, 19
Low-price harami, described, 88
Low price level, long white real
bodies, 21
Lucas, David, 138
M
Manville, 39, 40
Mark. See Deutsche Mark
Market prediction, candle charts
and, 18
Index 277
Markets, emotion and, 15-16. See
also Bond markets; Futures
markets; Stock markets
Market trends. See Trends
McDonald's, 225
Megellen Fund, 237, 238
Meiji period, 14, 18
Merrill Lynch, 221
Metastock software, 11
Mexico Telephone, 124, 186
Mideast War (1990), 15, 16
Mobil, 190
Momentum, doji and, 49-50
Morning star:
described, 116, 117-121
windows and, 102
Moving averages, 157-166
disparity index, 159-164
divergence index, 164-166
golden and dead cross, 157-158
long black real bodies, 30, 31-32
long white real bodies, 21, 22
overview of, 157
Moving shadow, hammers and,
57-58
Multi-level breaks, kagi charts, 224
Murphy, John, 8
Mutual funds, kagi charts, 223
N
Natural gas, 49
Neck, three-line break charts,
trading techniques with, 184­
186
Neri chart. See Renko chart
Newton, Isaac, 15
Nikkei, 83, 126, 165-166
Nippon Technical Analysts
Association, 19, 120, 129, 153,
166n3, 186, 187, 220, 248
Notionnel Bond, 51, 108
o
Offset trade, computer, 148--149
Opening price:
candle charts and, 19
harami and, 91
long white real bodies, 20
prior real body compared, 38-40
Overbought/oversold indicator,
disparity index, 159-164
Oyama, Kenji, 156n1, 239n1
p
Pacific Telephone, 188
Patterns, 55-127
dual candle lines, 68-93
dark cloud cover, 68-72
engulfing patterns, 76-83
278 Index
Patterns (Continued)
harami, 86-93
last engulfing patterns, 84-86
piercing pattern, 73-76
overview of, 55-56
single candle lines, 56-68
generally, 56
hammer, 56-59
hanging man, 59-64
shooting star, 64-68
three or more candle lines, 109-
127
evening star, 109-116
morning star, 117-121
record sessions, 121-127
windows, 93-109
Pepsi,237
Percentage kagi charts:
fixed price kagi charts and, 220
use of, 219-220
Pfizer, 112, 189
Piercing pattern:
described, 73-76
record sessions, 125-127
Point and figure charts, 7, 8, 153,
213
Point chart. See Stopping chart
Polarity principle, kagi charts, 232
Pole chart, candle chart evolution,
17
Price, value compared, 14
Prior real body, opening
compared to, 38-40
Psychology:
computer and, 145
of markets, 14
patterns and, 55
shadows, 50
R
Rallies:
dark cloud cover and, 72
shooting stars, 67
three-line break charts, 167
Rate of change (ROC) oscillator,
doji and, 49, 50
Reactions, windows and, 94
Real body, 20-50
accumulation and distribution,
42-45
described, 18, 19, 20
doji and, 45-50
engulfing patterns and, 76-77,
81-82, 83
harami and, 86-88, 90-91
long black real bodies, 29-34
at high price area, 29-30
as resistance, 33-34
resistance confirmation, 30-31
support breaking, 31-32
long white real bodies, 20-29
defined,20
low price level, 21
resistance breaking, 23-24
as support, 25-29
support confirmation, 21-23
prior real body, opening
compared to, 38-40
size, frequency, and color of,
35-38
spinning tops, 40-42
Record sessions:
kagi charts, 235-239
three-line break charts, trading
techniques with, 186-187
three or more candle lines, 121­
127
Relative strength index, long black
real bodies, 29, 30
Renko charts, 9, 153, 197-210
candle charts compared, 153
construction of, 199-203
first brick, 200-202
generally, 199-200
second brick, 202-203
subsequent bricks, 203
overview of, 197-198
practice session for, 207-210
sensitivity of, 154
trading techniques with, 203-205
Resistance:
dark cloud cover and, 70, 72
doji as, 46, 47-48
engulfing patterns and, 78,
79-80, 81, 82
evening star and, 111, 112
hammers and, 57-58
hanging man and, 61, 62, 63
harami and, 91, 92
kagi charts, 223, 231-232
long black real bodies, 30-31
long black real bodies as, 33-34
long white real bodies, 23-24
piercing pattern and, 76
stops, 130
three-line break charts, trading
techniques with, 187-188
windows and, 94, 97, 98-99
Retracement level:
long black real bodies, 34
long white real bodies, 21
Reversal signal:
candle chart/bar chart compared,
3
candle charts, 154-155
engulfing patterns and, 79
renko charts, 203
three-line break charts, 184-186
Reverse three-Buddha, kagi
charts, 233-235
Reward. See Risk/reward
Rice futures:
candle chart history and, 13-14,
17
kagi chart, 153
Rising gap, dark cloud cover and,
71
Rising windows. See alsoWindows
meaning of, 93, 94, 95, 96, 103,
104
stops, 130-132
Risk/reward:
candle charts and, 9
engulfing patterns and, 80
hammers and, 57
technical picture, 133-137
Rubbermaid, 41
Rumor, markets and, 15
S
Sakata, Goho, 127nl, 150nl-4
Sakata charts. See Candle charts
Sekigahara, Battle of, 13
Selloffs:
engulfing patterns and, 79-80,
81
harami and, 90
renko charts, 204
three-line break charts, 167
windows and, 96
Sell signals:
kagi charts, 220-221
renko charts, 203-204
three-line break charts, 174-176,
181-182
Shadows:
dark cloud cover and, 68-69
described, 19, 50-52
engulfing patterns and, 77
hammers and, 57-58
hanging man and, 59-64
harami and, 90-91, 92
high-wave candles and, 52-54
shooting stars, 64-68
three-line break charts and, 180
windows and, 93, 96
Shooting star:
dark cloud cover and, 71
described, 64-68
harami and, 89-90
windows and, 97, 98
Shoulders:
kagi charts, 219, 221-223, 229­
230,235
~
I
three-Buddha pattern, stops,
132-133
Silver:
piercing pattern and, 75
spinning tops, 44
windows and, 98
Single candle lines, 56-68
generally, 56
hammer, 56-59
hanging man, 59-64
shooting star, 64-68
windows and, 98
Size, of real body, 35-38
Small real bodies. See Spinning
tops
Southwest Bell, 70
S & P, 53, 79, 134, 163, 238
Spinning tops, 20
described, 40-42
doji and, 48
Spring:
hammers and, 57, 58, 59
shooting stars and, 64, 66
Star chart. See Stopping chart
Stock markets. See also Bond
markets; Futures markets
balance of power in, 153
candle charts and, 9, 19
dark cloud cover, 68-72
doji lines, 45-50
engulfing patterns, 76-83
evening star, 109-116
hammers, 56-59
hanging man and, 59-64
kagi charts, 213-245. See also
Kagi charts
last engulfing pattern, 84-86
long black real bodies, 29-34
long body size, frequency, and
color, 35-38
long white real bodies, 21-29
morning star, 117-121
moving averages, 157-166. See
also Moving averages
opening and closing prices,
19
piercing pattern, 73-76
prior real body, opening
compared to, 38-40
record sessions, three or more
candle lines, 121-127
renko charts, 197-210. See also
Renko charts
shadows, 50-54
shooting stars, 64-68
spinning tops, 40-42
technical picture, 129-150. See
also Technical picture
three-line break charts, 167-195.
See also Three-line break
charts
windows and, 93-109
Stopping chart, candle chart
evolution, 16-17
Stops:
described, 130-133
risk/reward, 133-137
Subjectivity, morning star and,
119, 120
Supply-demand situation:
candle chart/bar chart compared,
3
candle chart history and, 14
patterns and, 55
spinning tops, 43
Support:
hammers and, 57-58
hanging man and, 63
kagi charts, 231-232
long black real bodies, 31-32
long white real bodies, 21-23,
25-29
stops, 130
windows and, 94, 96, 97
T
Tall white candle. See Long white
real bodies
Technical analysis, candle charts
and,18
Technical picture, 129-150
change and, 142-144
computer and, 144-149
candle pattern location, 144-
145
criteria specification, 145-147
offset trade, 148-149
trade placing, 147-148
overview of, 129-130
risk/reward, 133-137
stops, 130-133
trend, 137-142
Technical Traders Guide to Computer
Analysis of the Futures Market
(LeBeau and Lucas), 138
Tech Talk (TV show), 8
Tendline, long white real bodies,
21
Three-Buddha pattern:
kagi charts, 233-235
stops, 132-133
Three-line break charts, 9, 153,
167-195
candle charts compared, 153
Index 279
construction of, 168-174
base price, 168-169
first line, 170
second line, 170-171
third line, 171-172
three consecutive white or
black lines, 172-174
overview of, 167-168
practice session for, 191-195
renko chart compared, 197
sensitivity of, 154
trading techniques with, 174-190
black shoe, white and black
suits, and a neck, 184-186
buy and sell signals, 174-176
candle charts and, 176-178
record sessions and, 186-187
trend reversal, 182-184
trends and, 178-181
variations of, 181-182
Western patterns and, 187-
190
Three or more candle lines, 109-
127
evening star, 109-116
morning star, 116, 117-121
record sessions, 121-127
Three windows, described, 102­
lOS
Time and timing:
kagi charts, 224
three-line break charts and, 181-
182
Tokugawa, Ieyasu, 13
Tokugawa Shogunate, 13
Trendline:
kagi charts, 231-232
long black real bodies, 31
long white real bodies, 21
three-line break charts, trading
techniques with, 188
trend determination by, 138
Trends:
candle chart/bar chart compared,
3
disparity index, 159-164
technical picture, 137-142
three-line break charts, 182-184
three-line break charts and, 178-
181
Turnaround amount:
kagi chart construction, 215, 216,
217
percentage kagi charts, 219-220
Tweezers top:
kagi charts, 232-233
three-line break charts, trading
techniques with, 188, 189
~_""' ""'!I!L- _
280 Index
Two-paired chimney:
kagi charts, 232-233
three-line break charts, trading
techniques with, 188, 189
U
Union Pacific, 165, 232
Unleaded gas, 102
Upjohn,33
Upper shadow, described, 19
Upthrust:
hammers and, 57
shooting stars and, 64, 66
Uptrend support line, three-line
break charts, trading
techniques with, 187-188
V
Value, price compared, 14
Vendors. See Data vendor services
Volatility, renko charts, 204
Volume, windows and, 96
W
Waists, kagi charts, 219, 221-223,
229-230, 235
The Wall Street Journal, 61
Wal-Mart, 135, 232, 233
Waste Management, 113
Western theory:
candles compared, 36
engulfing patterns and, 79
hanging man and, 63
three-line break charts, trading
techniques with, 187-190
trends, 137-138
Whipsaws, three-line break charts,
trend reversal, 184
Whispering tactics, markets and,
15
White real body, described, 18, 19.
See also Long white real bodies
White suits, three-line break
charts, trading techniques
with, 184-186
White turnaround line, three-line
break charts, 173, 179, 180,
181, 183, 184, 190
Windows, 93-109. See also Falling
windows; Rising windows
black gapping candles, two,
105-106
described, generally, 93-102
double windows, kagi charts,
227-231
falling window, morning star
and, 118-119
gapping doji and, 106-109
rising window, stops, 130-132
three windows, 102-105
World Bank, 7, 60-61
y
Yang line, kagi charts, 217, 224-
226. See also Yin and Yang
Yasui, Taichi, 5n3
Yen. See Japanese Yen
Yin and Yang:
kagi charts and, 213, 220-221,
224-226
markets and, 15-16, 110
Yin line, kagi charts, 217