
TABLE OF CONTENTS
COVER
TABLE OF CONTENTS
TITLE PAGE
COPYRIGHT
PREFACE
INTRODUCTION
BRIEF BACKGROUND ON THE AUTHOR
HOW THIS BOOK IS DIFFERENT
MGI PUTS MOMENTUM IN ACTIONABLE CONTEXT
THE SUCCESS OF THIS BOOK DEPENDS ON BOTH OF US
PART I: FOUNDATION
CHAPTER ONE: THE SECRETS OF SUCCESS
SUCCESS REQUIRES CONSTANT PLANNING AND
REHEARSAL
SELF-ASSESSMENT: WHERE ARE YOU MOST ACTIVE
ON THIS SCALE?
CHAPTER TWO: NUANCE
FLOOR SCALPERS
IRRATIONAL MARKETS AND PREDICTABLE HABITS
SCREEN TRADERS
ORDER FLOW
THE FINANCIAL SECTION
MARKETS HANDLE CURRENT BUSINESS FIRST
MORE ON EXPERTS
CHAPTER THREE: CHUNKING
YOU MUST KNOW HOW YOU CHUNK TO MASTER
TRADING
CHUNKING IS POWERFUL
I CHUNK, YOU CHUNK, WE CHUNK
INTUITION AND YOUR BRAIN
SELF-AWARENESS (AN ONGOING ENDEAVOR)
CHAPTER FOUR: IS OUR TRADING APPROACH
DIFFERENT?
REGULAR/IRREGULAR MARKET
PRICE, TIME, AND VOLUME
THE AUCTION PROCESS
LIQUIDITY AND TRANSPARENCY
VISUALIZATION
CHAPTER FIVE: MARKET UNDERSTANDING ONLY GOES
SO FAR
KNOW THYSELF
BE HERE NOW
YOUR BRAIN IS PLASTIC
CHAPTER SIX: YOU CAN'T ALWAYS FORGET WHAT YOU
WANT
UNLEARNING IS HARD
UNCERTAINTY IS HARDER
CHAPTER SEVEN: UNLEARNING
NOT FADE AWAY
THE CHALLENGE OF LEARNING AND TEACHING A
MULTI-DIMENSIONAL SKILL
WE MUST FIRST AGREE TO TERMS
GO SLOWLY AND BUILD A STRONG FOUNDATION
PROFILE CHUNKING
PART II: FUNDAMENTALS
CHAPTER EIGHT: DEVELOPING DEPTH
AIM FOR DEPTH PLUS BREADTH
SUCCESSFUL TRADING IS CREATIVE PROBLEM-
SOLVING
MARKET UNDERSTANDING + SELF-
UNDERSTANDING + STRATEGY = RESULTS
CHAPTER NINE: TIME AND SHORT-TERM TRADING
KNOW YOUR TIMEFRAME
OBJECTIVES
RISK AND VOLATILITY
TRANSACTION COSTS
ANALYSIS
CHAPTER TEN: READING THE SIGNS AND FINDING
VALUE
SIGNS, EVERYWHERE THE SIGNS
MARKETS RUN ON INFORMATION
TIME REGULATES ALL FINANCIAL OPPORTUNITIES
CHAPTER ELEVEN: BUILDING ON THE FOUNDATION
BEGINNING TO INTERPRET THE MARKET PROFILE
BLUEPRINT
POINT OF CONTROL AND VALUE AREA
MARKET CONFIDENCE
THE DANGER OF BEING OVERLY FOCUSED ON
LIMITED INFORMATION
PREPARING FOR A DAY OF TRADING
PRIORITIZING MARKET-GENERATED INFORMATION
LET THE TRADE COME TO YOU
MONITOR FOR CONTINUATION
FEAR OF MISSING OUT (FOMO)
KNOW YOUR COMPETITION
FIRST BREAK FROM TREND
BALANCE TRADING GUIDELINES
GAP TRADING GUIDELINES
MOMENTUM VS. MGI
WEAK HIGHS AND LOWS
CHAPTER TWELVE: TIMEFRAMES AND THE AUCTION
PROCESS
FACTORS AFFECTING PRICE
YOUR OPPONENTS' MOTIVATION
PRICE RISK AND LOCATION RISK
EXCESS
CATALYST
CHAPTER THIRTEEN: TAKE A MINUTE TO BREATHE
CHAPTER FOURTEEN: TREND DAYS
NO POC ON TREND DAYS
MARKETS ARE NOT ALWAYS ORDERLY
MENTAL FLEXIBILITY AND TEMPO
THE BUSINESS ASPECTS OF TRADING
GAPS AND SPIKES
CHAPTER FIFTEEN: EMOTIONS IN MOTION
EMOTIONAL AWARENESS
CHAPTER SIXTEEN: ANCHORS, REFERENCES, AND
SUBCONSCIOUS BIAS
RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT
THE RELEVANCE OF REFERENCES
DAY-TIMEFRAME TRADING AND REFERENCES
CHAPTER SEVENTEEN: PRIORITIZING REFERENCES
NOT ALL REFERENCES ARE CREATED EQUAL
CHAPTER EIGHTEEN: THIS TIME IS DIFFERENT
MONDAY'S MARKET ACTION
WHAT MGI TOLD ME ABOUT OTHER TRADERS THAT
MORNING
STAYING FOCUSED ON THE WAY TO THE FORUM
CHUNKING TOWARD SUCCESS
HOW WELL DO YOU KNOW YOURSELF?
SHORT IN THE HOLE
CHAPTER NINETEEN: EMOTIONAL INTELLIGENCE:
NAVIGATING SELF AND MARKET
THE WISDOM OF CROWDS
TUESDAY'S GAP LOWER
MARKET CONFIDENCE
WHY DID THE MARKET DEVIATE?
TEMPO
EMOTIONS ASSOCIATED WITH TEMPO
CHAPTER TWENTY: MARKETS IN TRANSITION
BEWARE OF PROFESSIONAL TRADER BIAS
THE BIGGEST OBSTACLE TO STAYING WITH THE
TREND IS YOU
CHAPTER TWENTY-ONE: EXPLICIT/IMPLICIT LEARNING
TAKE ME OUT TO THE MARKET
EXPLICIT LEARNING INVOLVED IN TRADING
IMPLICIT LEARNING INVOLVED IN TRADING
EXPLICIT–IMPLICIT INTERACTION
CHAPTER TWENTY-TWO: EVOLVING INTUITION
YOUR ONGOING LEARNING JOURNEY
THE POWER OF INTUITION
INTUITION OF THE MASTERS
CHAPTER TWENTY-THREE: BRINGING IT ALL
TOGETHER
BACKGROUND
CHAPTER TWENTY-FOUR: MARKETS HANDLE CURRENT
BUSINESS FIRST
CHAPTER TWENTY-FIVE: MAKING DECISIONS (IN THE
HEAT OF THE MOMENT)
TRADERS DO WHAT WORKS – UNTIL IT DOESN'T
CHAPTER TWENTY-SIX: BEYOND PRICE: UNVEILING
MARKET DYNAMICS
SELL FIRST, ASK QUESTIONS LATER
ALL-TIME HIGH
WHO'S IN CONTROL OF THE MARKET?
CHAPTER TWENTY-SEVEN: THE OPENING
ENGAGEMENT STARTS HERE
CAPITALIZING ON A BREAKOUT (CHANGE IN
SENTIMENT)
NUANCE MATTERS
A TREND IS IN MOTION
BALANCING FOR ALL TIMEFRAMES
MARKETS ALWAYS HANDLE CURRENT BUSINESS
FIRST
EARLY TRADE/OVERNIGHT INVENTORY
WHAT IS THE MARKET ATTEMPTING TO DO?
MORE NUANCES
COMPETITORS
DISTINGUISHING BETWEEN COMPETITORS
CHAPTER TWENTY-EIGHT: THE POWER OF A WELL-
KEPT JOURNAL
YOU ARE YOUR MARKET
JOURNALING IS PREPARATION
CHAPTER TWENTY-NINE: THAT'S A WRAP
FINAL THOUGHTS
APPENDIX A: REFERENCE DEFINITIONS
APPENDIX B: READING LIST
THE ART OF LEARNING BY JOSH WAITZKIN
THE POWER OF HABIT BY CHARLES DUHIGG
ATOMIC HABITS BY JAMES CLEAR
INCOGNITO: THE SECRET LIVES OF THE BRAIN BY DAVID
EAGLEMAN
GRIT: THE POWER OF PASSION AND PERSEVERANCE BY
ANGELA DUCKWORTH
THE BIGGEST BLUFF BY MARIA KONNIKOVA
GUT FEELINGS: THE INTELLIGENCE OF THE
UNCONSCIOUS BY GERD GIGERENZER
THE DAILY TRADING COACH: 101 LESSONS FOR
BECOMING YOUR OWN TRADING PSYCHOLOGIST BY
BRETT N. STEENBARGER
APPENDIX C: JIM DALTON TRADING
FOUNDATION AND APPLICATION OF THE MARKET
PROFILE eCOURSE
ADVANCED NUANCES AND EXCEPTIONS ECOURSE
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
ABOUT THE AUTHORS
END USER LICENSE AGREEMENT
List of Illustrations
Chapter 10
Figure 10.1 “p”-Shaped Profile
Figure 10.2 “b”-Shaped Profile
Figure 10.3 Example of POC Migration
Figure 10.4 Calculating the Value Area
Figure 10.5 Series of Profiles Showing Value Area Relationships
Chapter 11
Figure 11.1 Components of the Profile
Figure 11.2 A Monthly Bar Chart
Figure 11.3 A Weekly Bar Chart
Figure 11.4 A Daily Bar Chart
Figure 11.5 Trading from December 28, 2023, to January 5, 2024
Figure 11.6 Multiple Distributions on January 8, 2024
Figure 11.7 “p”-Shaped Profile on January 9, 2024
Figure 11.8 The Weak High on January 9, 2024
Chapter 12
Figure 12.1 Daily Bar Chart from August 2023 to January 2024,
Showing the 20...
Figure 12.2 Lack of Excess in December 2023
Chapter 14
Figure 14.1 Trend Day
Figure 14.2 First Cessation of One-Timeframing
Figure 14.3 Second Cessation of One-Timeframing
Figure 14.4 Profile of a Double Distribution Trend Day
Figure 14.5 Liquidation Break and Tempo
Figure 14.6 Early Cessation of One-Timeframing
Figure 14.7 Example of a Spike
Chapter 16
Figure 16.1 Overnight Trade, Before Opening, Monday, February
5, 2024
Chapter 17
Figure 17.1 Example of a Market Not Influenced by Day-
Timeframe Traders
Figure 17.2 Example of a Market in Control of the Shortest
Timeframe
Chapter 18
Figure 18.1 The Profile Showing an Early Liquidating Break
Figure 18.2 The Gap in the Fixed-Income Market, February 5,
2024
Figure 18.3 The Profile for the E-Mini NASDAQ 100 for
February 6, 2024
Figure 18.4 The Profile for the E-Mini NASDAQ 100 Prior to the
Opening on Fe...
Chapter 19
Figure 19.1 The Profile Showing a Double Distribution
Figure 19.2 The Profile of Tuesday, February 13, 2024
Chapter 20
Figure 20.1 A Broader Perspective of the Markets via Monthly
Bar Chart
Chapter 23
Figure 23.1 The Profiles of March 5, 2024, and March 6, 2024
Chapter 24
Figure 24.1 Long-Term Trend in the Monthly Bar Chart
Figure 24.2 The Daily Bar Chart, February 5–March 20, 2024
Figure 24.3 The Profile Showing Gap Higher on March 18, 2024
Figure 24.4 The Daily Bar Chart for February–March 2024
Figure 24.5 The Profile for March 19, 2024
Chapter 25
Figure 25.1 The Profiles from March 20 to March 26, 2024
Figure 25.2 The Profile on March 27, 2024
Figure 25.3 The Profile on March 28, 2024
Chapter 26
Figure 26.1 The Profile on the Morning of April 2, 2024
Figure 26.2 The Profile on the Afternoon of April 1, 2024
Figure 26.3 The Surge in Short-Term Selling Activity
Chapter 27
Figure 27.1 The Weekly Bar Chart, March–April 2024
Figure 27.2 The Daily Bar Chart for the Four Weeks, March–
April, 2024...
Figure 27.3 Two-Sided Trading after Downside Breakout from
Balance
Figure 27.4 The Profile for April 12, 2024
Chapter 29
Figure 29.1 The Profile for May 14, 2024
OceanofPDF.com
MARKETS & MOMENTUM
 
HOW PROFILING GIVES TRADERS AN
ADVANTAGE
 
 
 
JAMES F. DALTON AND ROBERT BEVAN DALTON
 
 
 
 
 
OceanofPDF.com
Copyright © 2025 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc. All rights reserved, including rights for text and data
mining and training of artificial intelligence technologies or similar technologies.
Published by John Wiley & Sons, Inc., Hoboken, New Jersey.
Published simultaneously in Canada.
No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any
form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, scanning, or otherwise,
except as permitted under Section 107 or 108 of the 1976 United States Copyright Act, without either
the prior written permission of the Publisher, or authorization through payment of the appropriate
per-copy fee to the Copyright Clearance Center, Inc., 222 Rosewood Drive, Danvers, MA 01923,
(978) 750-8400, fax (978) 750-4470, or on the web at www.copyright.com. Requests to the Publisher
for permission should be addressed to the Permissions Department, John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 111
River Street, Hoboken, NJ 07030, (201) 748-6011, fax (201) 748-6008, or online at
http://www.wiley.com/go/permission.
Trademarks: Wiley and the Wiley logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of John Wiley &
Sons, Inc. and/or its affiliates in the United States and other countries and may not be used without
written permission. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. John Wiley &
Sons, Inc. is not associated with any product or vendor mentioned in this book.
Limit of Liability/Disclaimer of Warranty: While the publisher and authors have used their best
efforts in preparing this book, they make no representations or warranties with respect to the
accuracy or completeness of the contents of this book and specifically disclaim any implied
warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. No warranty may be created or
extended by sales representatives or written sales materials. The advice and strategies contained
herein may not be suitable for your situation. You should consult with a professional where
appropriate. Further, readers should be aware that websites listed in this work may have changed or
disappeared between when this work was written and when it is read. Neither the publisher nor
authors shall be liable for any loss of profit or any other commercial damages, including but not
limited to special, incidental, consequential, or other damages.
For general information on our other products and services or for technical support, please contact
our Customer Care Department within the United States at (800) 762-2974, outside the United States
at (317) 572-3993 or fax (317) 572-4002.
Wiley also publishes its books in a variety of electronic formats. Some content that appears in print
may not be available in electronic formats. For more information about Wiley products, visit our web
site at www.wiley.com.
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data is Available:
ISBN 9781394318896 (Cloth)
ISBN 9781394318827 (ePDF)
ISBN 9781394318810 (ePub)
Cover Design and Image: Wiley
OceanofPDF.com
PREFACE
Excellence in any endeavor – whether it's surgery, sports, or futures trading
– can only be achieved by balancing the analytical and intuitive powers of
your brain. Put another way, you must constantly seek to balance your
conscious and your unconscious mind.
There is no finish line, no promised land where you'll always make the right
trading decisions. There is only the process of seeking opportunities in an
ever-changing market structure, and the process of making decisions free of
the influence of emotional states that have been hard-coded in you, me, and
every human being for thousands of years.
Everyone who reads this book will encounter a unique challenge, depending
on knowledge, experience, and genetics. Even your current emotional state;
how you feel influences how your brain creates connections, which then
influences how you act.
That probably manifests in most readers as a desire to rush ahead to find
actionable advice and immediately seek trades. This kind of urge is present
in all of us. Unexamined, it has hindered many traders from the profitable
careers they envisioned.
Can you put a price on patience? The cost of trading without it is extremely
high.
The components of any financial transaction are time, price, and
volume.
Only when an understanding of these fundamentals is deeply ingrained can
we learn to identify herd behavior and wield our intuition, perhaps our most
potent tool.
In order to beat the odds and end up ahead, you must confront the greatest
obstacle of all – unlearning preconceived notions that lead to ineffective
trading strategies.
We're so used to doing what we've always done that we don't stop to
question whether it's the right thing to do at all. Many of our failures in
performance are largely attributable to a lack of self-awareness.
— James Clear, Atomic Habits
OceanofPDF.com
INTRODUCTION
Over the years, I have purchased multiple copies of Shel Silverstein's
timeless book, Where the Sidewalk Ends. The poem below is one of my
favorites.
“Hector the Collector”
Hector the Collector
Collected bits of string,
Collected dolls with broken heads
And rusty bells that would not ring. Bent-up nails and ice-cream sticks,
Twists of wires, worn-out tires,
Paper bags and broken bricks.
Old chipped vases, half shoelaces,
Gatlin' guns that wouldn't shoot,
Leaky boats that wouldn't float
And stopped-up horns that wouldn't toot. Butter knives that had no
handles,
Copper keys that fit no locks
Rings that were too small for fingers,
Dried-up leaves and patched-up socks.
Worn-out belts that had no buckles,
‘Lectric trains that had no tracks,
Airplane models, broken bottles,
Three-legged chairs and cups with cracks.
Hector the Collector
Loved these things with all his soul –
Loved them more then shining diamonds,
Loved them more then glistenin' gold.
Hector called to all the people,
“Come and share my treasure trunk!”
And all the silly sightless people
Came and looked … and called it junk.
BRIEF BACKGROUND ON THE AUTHOR
In 1972, I held memberships on both the Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT)
and the Chicago Board Options Exchange (CBOE). You could say Hector
was active in this chapter of my trading career.
Hector was sidelined a few years later when I became Senior Executive
Vice President of the CBOE during its formative years. But after I left the
exchange in 1979, he became active again.
It wasn't until the late 1980s that I attempted to shut down Hector once and
for all when I collaborated with Eric Jones and my son, Rob Dalton, on my
first book, Mind Over Markets; I stopped collecting every indicator and
signal available.
As I read more and more about human behavior, neuroscience, and trading
psychology, it became increasingly clear to me that “less is more” –
successful trading is about leveraging the right information, not the most
information.
When I became manager of a UBS institutional options trading desk, I
began to systematically remove from our quote equipment many of the
studies and indicators I had previously accumulated, just like Hector. After
some initial pushback, we established a powerful trading desk, and many of
my traders went on to enjoy notable careers.
The final confirmation of my anti-Hector philosophy emerged from Josh
Waitzkin's book, The Art of Learning. Waitzkin was an international chess
champion who also achieved fame in the martial arts, and one of his
primary tenets was simple: “Depth beats breadth every time.” (More on
Waitzkin in the “Reading List” in Appendix B.)
In my last incarnation at UBS Financial Services as Director of Hedge Fund
Research, I discovered that interacting with multiple hedge funds solidified
the “depth beats breadth” observation, changing my trading philosophy
forever.
In 2017, I founded Jim Dalton Trading (jimdaltontrading.com), dedicated to
advanced trading, mentoring, and education with my partners Jennifer Loh
and Raghu Rajput (RJ). Our immersive trading courses and mentoring
programs are widely recognized for their breadth and depth. Numerous
experienced traders have credited our courses for propelling them to new
levels, providing them with a competitive edge by honing their instinct for
what motivates their competition, and what drives ever-changing markets.
We focus on teaching traders how to cut through the noise – not with
magical theories, but by applying a potent combination of observation and
practical application to influence probability-based trading decisions, free
of biases and bad habits.
My lifelong pursuit of understanding the power of market-generated
information (MGI) has been an ongoing labor of love, encompassing many
of the chapters shared. That pursuit will continue as long as I'm able to
continue to observe the beguiling, often bewildering ebb and flow of price,
time, and volume.
HOW THIS BOOK IS DIFFERENT
I wrote Mind over Markets more than three decades ago in an attempt to
examine and codify my burgeoning understanding of the power of MGI.
When you write, you're engaging in both external storage and encoding.
You're “storing” important information, making it easier to review, while at
the same time improving the encoding process that secures ideas in long-
term memory. In other words, what you write down has a much greater
chance of being recalled again.
If you can't write about it clearly, you don't understand it.
—Shane Parrish
Writing Mind over Markets and the follow-up Markets in Profile helped
solidify and codify my trading philosophy, centered around the visual tool
of the Market Profile.
In my early years running a trading desk, when a trade went bad, I handed
the trader a yellow pad and asked them to write down their rationale for the
trade. If the trader couldn't clearly describe the situation quickly and easily,
I knew they didn't understand the trade and I'd give it to someone else on
the desk.
At that time, I often spoke about “self-understanding” being a vital
component for success, but I must admit that I was painfully light in that
area back then. My first two books reveal this dearth, in that there is next to
nothing written about how to develop that all-important component of
successful trading.
Since those early years, I've done a lot of thinking, reading, and most
importantly, experiencing. So, while this book has much in common with
Mind Over Markets and Markets in Profile, it represents the culmination of
a career spent studying the way humans influence market behavior, and just
as importantly, how markets (and the constant noise of the modern world)
influence human behavior.
Importantly, we've eliminated strategies that I've since learned aren't viable.
Concepts like “initial balance” and “range extension” – which I once
investigated closely – have proven to be misleading and relatively
unhelpful. Similarly, I used to detail the various types of market openings,
which people loved because they seem programmatic… but they're simply
not valid indicators.
I've weeded out those elements.
I was in Vegas speaking at “Traders for a Cause,” and a young trader asked
how markets have changed. I replied that volume has grown exponentially
and hedge funds and large firms now buy order flow, giving them a
fractional head start by shaving nanoseconds in order to pocket billions of
dollars.
Institutions have always attempted to keep their orders private. Dark pools,
which are private exchanges for trading securities, have continued to
expand. With the advancement of technology, almost all orders – from
single lots to large institutional orders – are entered via algorithms.
Another meaningful change occurred in March 2020 in response to the
COVID-19 pandemic, when fiscal and monetary policy led to extreme
liquidity. Charles Schwab reported that approximately 15% of its 30
million+ customers arrived in 2020. These inexperienced clients changed
the market, contributing to increased volatility. I believe this increased
liquidity has been siphoned off by more experienced traders.
But really, the basic components have not changed at all: time, price, and
volume are still the fundamental mechanisms of any transaction.
What also hasn't changed – and this is amazing to me – is the continuing
dependence on momentum trading, which is based solely on price. But a
single dimension can never account for the necessary depth of
understanding. The Market Profile opened the door to more readily
recognizing MGI. When it was first introduced, I struggled with the
relationship between MGI and momentum. I now recognize that they're
complementary – momentum is simply the leading indicator, and MGI is
the lagging indicator.
MGI PUTS MOMENTUM IN ACTIONABLE
CONTEXT
When I wrote Mind Over Markets, we were dealing with a novel
technology; the Market Profile was a new tool for parsing real-time market
activity, and as with any new technology, adjustments, refinements, and a
deeper understanding of how best to employ that tool have developed over
time.
Equally relevant, Mind Over Markets and Markets in Profile were both
written before I had experience teaching traders how to use the Market
Profile. I have dedicated the last three decades to mentoring and teaching
traders how to understand indicators like momentum through the context of
the Profile's constantly evolving distribution curve. This process has been a
two-way street, as my extensive client interactions have educated me about
the unique challenges that traders face, as well as the best methods for
teaching them the fundamentals of market understanding.
In writing Markets & Momentum, we've culled both books, eliminating
factors that have proven to be irrelevant. We've whittled it down to what is
most important, adding depth around self-understanding, which can only be
developed through consistent effort over time.
It's vital to embrace the fact that the greatest obstacle to your success is you.
If you aren't aware of the fact that your subconscious is often driving your
behavior – manifest in bad habits, illogical shortcuts, and the potent engine
of rationalization – then you may be making decisions based on invisible
factors.
Until you make the unconscious conscious, it will direct your life and
you will call it fate.
—Carl Jung
THE SUCCESS OF THIS BOOK DEPENDS ON
BOTH OF US
This book was born of my desire to share the knowledge I've accumulated
over a lifetime studying market and human behavior. We'll begin with Part
I, a “Foundation” section that establishes key, non-linear concepts that must
be internalized before you begin to trade. Read it, take notes (we've
included empty pages in the back of the book), and begin your lifelong
process of investigating your unique approach to processing information; it
is only by discovering how your emotions, subconscious, and layered
learning influence real-time decision-making that you can hope to become a
successful trader.
Part II, the subsequent “Fundamentals” section will provide you with an
essential understanding of the market's continuous, two-way auction
process, as well as the theory behind the Market Profile, which is simply an
intuitive way to organize and visualize this process.
Many members of the trading community believe I'm a “Market Profile
trader.” This is not true – I'm a discretionary trader who employs the Profile
as an efficient tool for organizing the market's unfolding auctions. In all
empirical pursuits, the better the data is organized, the greater the odds that
you'll be able to glean important insights.
Having worked with traders and clients for half a century, I have recorded
many observations. First and foremost: It's too easy to become a trader.
With a few thousand dollars you can open a brokerage account and, boom:
you're a trader. But by most estimates, the average trader's chance of
success is painfully small.
Why do so many people lose? Statistically speaking, it should be
impossible for so many people to lose. If the market is random—and
most of the time, market momentum is indeed random—why do 90% of
clients consistently lose a 50:50 bet? The answer is as simple as it is
complex. It isn't the market beating them. They are beating themselves.
—Tom Hougaard, Best Loser Wins
As you focus on becoming a trader, understand that it's no different than
becoming a surgeon, musician, or professional athlete; it's one thing to sit in
the stands and critique a baseball game, and quite another to stare down a
fastball coming at you at a hundred miles an hour.
A difficult challenge for short-term traders is that when you become part
of a group there is a tendency to become like them. Remember, all the
anecdotal evidence suggests that less than 10% of the group is profitable.
Our surroundings influence us. We unconsciously become what we are
near. As you adopt the behavior of those around you, the changes are
often too subtle to notice until it's too late.
—Shane Parrish, Clear Thinking
OceanofPDF.com
PART I
FOUNDATION
OceanofPDF.com
CHAPTER ONE
THE SECRETS OF SUCCESS
We often read books as passive observers, letting the narrative wash over us
without actively engaging in the experience. This is not that kind of book –
you must join me as a participant if you wish to gain ground and move
forward toward the pinnacle of expert trading.
Even as a willing participant, however, it can be difficult to orient yourself
unless you know where you are, as a trader, right now. To respond to this
challenge, it's necessary to conduct an honest self-assessment. The
following guidelines are designed to assist you in this endeavor.
The majority of successful traders I've known are far more productive when
engaging in go with trades; they often execute trades in the direction of the
salient trend. If they're day traders, “go with” means following the daily
trend, or “developing value” (an important pattern we'll address later in the
book). Swing traders, on the other hand, tend to execute based on the
intermediate, or longer-term trend.
Most short-term, non-professional traders have taken courses that preach
“reversion to the mean.” They're also taught to wait for signals that confirm
a trade. In my experience, successful traders actually shun reversion-to-the-
mean trades!
In today's fast markets, waiting for confirmation often results in missing
profitable trend days (we will discuss trend days in Chapter 14).
SUCCESS REQUIRES CONSTANT
PLANNING AND REHEARSAL
In my educational seminars and programs, we frequently refer to
“homework,” as in, “If you haven't done your homework, you haven't
earned the right to trade.”
All traders have great intentions, but family, friends, news items, and
myriad other commitments and interruptions can transform these intentions
into regrets. In order to make progress on the road to becoming a successful
trader, you'll have to take a close look at your intentions and tendencies and
accept some potentially difficult truths about how you process and act on
information. But that's the game. And you either play it with an open,
focused mind, or you get played and join the more than 90% of short-term
traders who lose money in the markets.
Do you double down on losing trades? This is one of the most dangerous
habits inexperienced traders suffer. A wise person once said, “When you're
in a hole, stop digging.” The use of the word “habit” here, is deliberate. In
Chapter 6, we'll review actionable approaches to changing the habits that
decrease our odds of success.
Which brings to mind a metaphor that might prove useful as you assess
your own inclinations. Neuroscience makes it clear that our standard modes
of thought become physically ingrained; when we think the same thoughts
over and over, we forge neural pathways – superhighways of brain activity
that become increasingly easy to traverse.
Changing mental habits is tantamount to scratching out a path through
tangled undergrowth away from the highway. The going can be rough.
Imagine how time-consuming it would be to use a machete to cut your
way through thick foliage. A few miles could take days. Once the path is
cleared, however, you could move quickly through the clearing. If you
were to make a road and ride a bike or other vehicle, the transportation
would get faster still.
— Josh Waitzkin, The Art of Learning
This metaphor is handy because it reminds us that only by continuing to
beat a new path – through daily practice – are we able to establish new,
more productive avenues for thought. As we've established, the
superhighway of trader habits does not lead to financial success, so you
must ask yourself: Am I willing to forge a new path through focused,
repeated effort?
Here's a (partial) list of the types of mental tendencies that cause traders to
lose focus/time/money:
Doubling down on iffy trades
Good old-fashioned FOMO (fear of missing out)
Unceasing eagerness to take profits
Fading trend days
Failure to let profits run
Reading every bit of news/analysis (almost guarantees cognitive
dissonance – addressed in Chapter 6)
Trusting a “gut feeling” (which is more likely a temporary emotional
urge)
The popular writer/psychologist Malcolm Gladwell developed the Diffusion
Model as a way to judge where you are most active. The scale also comes in
handy when assessing competitor behavior – and your own:
Innovator
Early Adopter
Early Majority
Late Majority
Laggard
SELF-ASSESSMENT: WHERE ARE YOU
MOST ACTIVE ON THIS SCALE?
Self-awareness is key to being able to combine your skill, experience, and
knowledge – the trifecta that gives you slightly better odds of trading with
less risk. Few traders process this fact, and fewer still have even thought
about it.
But I guarantee: Self-assessment is the starting point for achieving success.
In Appendix B, I've listed a number of books that helped me better
understand the way I process information, emotions, and the endless noise
that courses through our screens. I highly recommend you read them –
perhaps even before you continue with this book – to improve your capacity
for self-assessment. At least begin reading them in conjunction with this
book, as they are an integral part of the experience.
You cannot change your destination overnight, but you can change your
direction overnight. Success is nothing more than a few simple
disciplines, practiced every day.
—Jim Rohn, Entrepreneur, author, and motivational speaker
OceanofPDF.com
CHAPTER TWO
NUANCE
This book is about nuance.
My doctor is one of the most esteemed internists in Scottsdale, widely
respected for his focus on subtle clues often missed by other specialists. He
once asked me what I did, and I told him I wrote books on trading. He
responded, “That can't be worth much, because trading – like medicine – is
about nuances.”
He was wrong to assume that I wasn't nuance-oriented, but he was
absolutely right about the importance of those subtle clues that most traders
consistently miss.
Nuance means “subtle difference in meaning,” and when applied to trading,
it indicates the challenge before every trader: How can I discover
opportunities in unfolding market structure?
Trading is a nuanced art. This book is about learning to find clues in the
way the market moves. What follows is a series of observations that create
focus areas for your ongoing practice.
FLOOR SCALPERS
“Scalping” originally meant people shouting and gesturing at each other in
a pit. This frenetic activity provided liquidity, and scalpers were able to buy
on bid and sell on offer with no commission on break-even trades.
Some still endorse scalping as a “low-risk” activity, but the odds are now
stacked against you. First, off-floor scalpers buy on offer and sell on bid,
and they're paying commissions – whether visible or not. Scalpers are also
up against mega-firms like Schwab selling order flow to large hedge funds.
These funds have massive computing power and get to see the public order
flow milliseconds ahead of the average trader, their algorithms transforming
micro-head-starts into billions in profits.
I have only anecdotal evidence, but it seems less than 5% of floor scalpers
ended up making any money screen trading; they no longer had the physical
advantages of the trading floor, and weren't able to adopt new practices.
Information on the floor used to come through sound. If prices were going
up and the sound level increased, you were likely to see continuation. If
price levels were going up and the sound diminished, odds are the rally was
coming to an end. Experienced traders almost intuitively had their palms
facing the crowd at this point (selling).
Conversely, when trading from an electronic screen, sensory information
reaches your brain through your eyes. Many floor traders never realized the
significance of this transition.
IRRATIONAL MARKETS AND PREDICTABLE
HABITS
Long before I had heard of behavioral economist Dan Ariely, I believed that
while financial markets can be irrational, trader behavior can sometimes be
predictable. Ariely is known for his work on human irrationality and
decision-making, which applies beautifully to the field of finance.
One of the key ideas in behavioral economics which Ariely explored is that
people often make predictable, systematic errors due to cognitive biases.
These biases can influence how traders and investors behave, leading to
patterns and predictability in their actions.
An example of predictable behavior can be found in the way short-term
traders get too long or too short – the “Pied Piper syndrome” is alive and
well, which can result in trading opportunities when those short-term
inventories are out of balance.
Nothing draws a crowd quite like a crowd.
—P. T. Barnum
When I was on the floor, I observed “top-step traders” constantly taking
advantage of this phenomenon. This larger trader would recognize that a
preponderance of smaller traders were leaning in the same direction. A
trader with palms facing the crowd was offering, while palms facing inward
indicated bidding. When a larger trader recognized that the majority was
short, he would aggressively bid to force them to cover. As the covering
reached a crescendo, the palms would again face outward as he reversed
positions.
Pit trading may be a thing of the past, but the patterns of human activity that
were once present in the sound of active trading can still be discovered in
the multi-dimensional dance of price, time, and value, which we will cover
in depth throughout this book.
SCREEN TRADERS
Public, screen-based traders – a small subset of market participants – often
follow the leader and wind up too long or too short. Sometimes these out-
of-balance positions last for days.
I see this phenomenon occurring electronically as I sit in Prescott, Arizona,
watching my screens. Part of successful trading relies on recognizing when
these possibilities exist. And if you're unaware, you will likely be caught off
guard and end up wallowing in the herd.
We can all be taken in by the Pied Piper.
If I can recognize temporary trade imbalances on my screens, so can hedge
funds and large, independent traders. Just as top-step traders used to
squeeze floor traders, these market participants now squeeze short-term
traders in the same manner. Learning how to read the screen is an art, just
like top-step traders learned how to read floor-trader behavior.
There has been a major shift in advantage from the floor trader to the
knowledgeable screen-based trader; transparency shifted from the floor to
the public. Few recognize the significance of this fact, which is another
focus area for this book.
The public has more transparency than ever before. Learning how to
capitalize on this is an ongoing process. Like any worthwhile pursuit.
In a very real sense, this is a contest – it's not just about what you do, but
what your opponent does. All too often you lose track of this and end up
beating yourself. Always make sure you're trading your game and not that
of your competition.
What you don't do is as important, or maybe even more important, than
what you do.
ORDER FLOW
Short-term traders often seek answers by analyzing order flow. Years ago, I
was a senior officer in a firm that cleared locals, and while I didn't have
access to the details, I was informed that one of our locals made more than
$5 million executing trades for a premier hedge fund. Large institutional
firms go to extremes to disguise order flow.
If they do allow you to see their order flow, odds are you don't want to
know.
Take a moment to consider, 40 years later, how sophisticated these firms
have gotten at disguising their activity in the Internet age of autonomous
algorithms.
THE FINANCIAL SECTION
One of the biggest short-term trading traps you can fall into is perusing the
financial press; even if you know it's inaccurate or irrelevant, a piece of
news that triggers an emotional response can set a bias in your mind that
hinders your ability to stay calm, rational, and focused on the information
the market is giving you. And you may not even be aware of the fact that
you've been manipulated into a biased view!
I had to learn this over and over. And over.
Many traders believe they get value from following economic
announcements and the endless analysis before and after a release. But by
the time they get the news, larger players have already acted. Individual
traders are unlikely to have access to “whisper numbers” – professional
estimations from behind the scenes. Even if they had access, the analysis is
probably not relevant to their unique trading timeframe.
The press is after readership, and sexy headlines attract readers to sell ad
space. Even if you're following a “knowledgeable source,” you're not likely
to come away with nuanced, actionable information.
For that, you must look to the market itself.
Observe the market's reaction when numbers are announced: These are
decisions made by real people with real money. Your best channel for
actionable insight is market-generated information (MGI).
Writing this in the final days of 2023, I'm struck by the fact that most Wall
Street “experts” predicted a recession this year. These experts were
blindsided by the financial strength that actually occurred. Early in the year,
JPMorgan CEO Jamie Dimon said a mild or hard recession was possible.
Instead, the first three quarters delivered annual growth of 3.2%, falling
unemployment, and declining inflation.
My point is this: As a trader, you're on your own.
Yes, I read the financial press, but I do it with my eyes open – I'm a natural
skeptic. And, yes, I'm still susceptible to financial biases. Such is the life of
a trader.
My experience has led me to believe that the two biggest obstacles (habits)
to a trader's success are not letting profits run and fading trends, and these
behaviors are often triggered by a headline or passionate pundit waving his
hands and declaring something that turns out to be at best a partial point,
and at worst completely unsubstantiated nonsense.
In short, buyer (and seller) beware.
MARKETS HANDLE CURRENT BUSINESS
FIRST
Any report, news, Fed announcement, etc. is immediately addressed by the
market. This action may turn out to be temporary (being aware of this fact
becomes more natural over time).
If there's a decent trend at the time of the announcement and the news takes
the market in the direction of the auction, there are better odds that it will
continue.
On the other hand, if there's a decent trend and the news takes the market in
the opposite direction, the odds are better that the market will work its way
back to where it was before the announcement.
MORE ON EXPERTS
Traders often respond rapidly when an expert gets a microphone. One of
my early favorite books was Nassim Taleb's The Black Swan. In it, Taleb
argues that experts are domain-dominant; experts develop in fields that
inherently offer a great deal of regularity.
There is too much irregularity in economics and financial markets to enable
the development of true experts. There are plenty of expert claims, but I
find them to be largely overconfident and frequently misleading.
The point is that traders are better served focusing on MGI and trusting
their own observations, rather than following “hot takes” from biased
talking heads bloviating in popular media.
People are disturbed not by things, but by the view they take of them.
—Epictetus
OceanofPDF.com
CHAPTER THREE
CHUNKING
Throughout this book you'll be introduced to terms like “chunking,”
“neuroplasticity,” “ego,” and so forth. And since none of us have entered
the trading pursuit as an infant, you'll also encounter a focus on unlearning
– a pivotal component to your success.
YOU MUST KNOW HOW YOU CHUNK TO
MASTER TRADING
As babies, our introduction to learning is through sensory information,
especially hearing and sight. Through visual and auditory input we begin to
develop an understanding of cause and effect; our environment delivers
inputs that forge our knowledge of and feel for the world, as well as our
unconscious mind, which enables us to recognize patterns and react without
being paralyzed by the new and unknown.
These patterns of learned behavior are the habits that shape our lives. The
importance of understanding the way your subconscious mind influences
your behavior cannot be overstated.
You learn to lock in on cues that predict success and tune out everything
else. When a similar situation arises in the future, you know exactly
what to look for. There is no longer a need to analyze every angle of a
situation. Your brain skips the process of trial and error and creates a
mental rule: if this, then that.
— James Clear, Atomic Habits
Reflect on how excited we get when an infant begins to walk. When that
adorably bumbling tyke learns to take those first steps, she is beginning to
“chunk” information. Chunking is how the brain binds together multiple
bits of related information into a single, actionable algorithm.
Can you imagine that baby – or you, for that matter – having to consciously
think about every step before taking it? Let's see: First, I contract my left
leg muscle…
Chunking is how we do everything we do, every day of our lives. For a
baby, chunking is running across the floor, squealing with delight. For the
expert trader, chunking is recognizing patterns of human behavior in
ongoing market flow that enable the placement of trades with slightly less
risk.
CHUNKING IS POWERFUL
When I was first introduced to the concept known as “chunking,” I assumed
it was an obscure psychological term and ignored it. It was almost five
years later before I recognized how wrong I was and how important
chunking is to learning.
The simplest explanation of chunking is to visualize a new driver learning
to back the car out of a garage. For the novice, this operation requires
multiple careful steps: starting the car, adjusting the mirrors, opening the
garage door, placing the car into gear, looking behind the car, etc.
After a little experience, however, the brain “chunks” these steps into a
single, automatic action. Attempting to work more efficiently, the brain
constantly seeks to chunk information, creating neural networks that serve
as communication links between chunks.
In his formative book The Art of Learning, Josh Waitzkin provided the
clearest definition, explaining that chunking relates to the mind's ability to
assimilate large amounts of information into a cluster that is bound together
by patterns or principles particular to a given discipline.
“So, in a nutshell,” he writes, “chunking relates to the mind's ability to take
lots of information, find a harmonizing/logical consistent strain, and put it
together into one mental file that can be assessed as if it were a single piece
of information.”
But in its effort to be efficient, the brain can make errors. We'll investigate
this more fully later in the book, but training the brain to chunk can be a
powerful tool – as long as our chunks aren't composed of partial
information we take to be complete, or tainted by emotional biases that lead
to costly, hard-to-break patterns.
I CHUNK, YOU CHUNK, WE CHUNK
Chunking can be as simple as getting out of bed in the morning, or as
complex as performing your daily market research preparation. These are
both routines – either running on autopilot or close to it. When you perform
these actions, your brain is employing chunks to reduce the amount of effort
it takes to navigate the world.
Conserving effort is something humans had to do for eons to survive. If
every time you heard a sudden rustling in the bushes you had to spend time
and effort trying to determine whether that was a good thing or a bad thing,
your genes would not get passed down.
Our brain is constantly organizing neurons and synapses to create these
chunks, and they directly affect our daily life experience. And importantly,
they influence the decisions we make.
The positive side of chunking is that it allows us to effortlessly move
through daily routines. In fact, we would be hard-pressed to even identify
each of the steps involved in any given chunk! Consciously thinking about
each piece of chunked information is inefficient and would slow us down
terribly, making us easy lion fodder.
But when the world doesn't respond to the way we've chunked it, there can
be serious consequences. For example, when you take a casual step on an
unseen patch of ice, it feels as if the world has spun out from beneath you,
and your “I'm walking here” chunk fails to enable you to avoid a quick trip
to the pavement.
This serves as an excellent metaphor for the danger of chunking the wrong
market information, or worse, chunking partial information, arbitrary
patterns, or the most common trap of all – what you hope will happen as
opposed to what is actually happening.
INTUITION AND YOUR BRAIN
I was living in Edgewater, New Jersey, questioning myself after several
days of poor trading. I knew the answer was within me, but didn't know
how to unlock it.
I drove to Barnes & Noble in search of books on the brain. When I walked
in the front door my jaw dropped – there were dozens and dozens of
“Books on the Brain” right there on the front display table. My eye was
drawn to Mozart's Brain and the Fighter Pilot: Unleashing Your Brain's
Potential, by Richard Restak, M.D., a neurologist, neuropsychiatrist, and
clinical professor of neurology.
Talk about kismet.
My lifelong focus on the brain began on page 41:
In practical terms, all of the new research on the brain means that no
matter how old you may be at this moment, it's never too late to change
your brain for the better. That's because the brain is different from every
other organ in our body. While the liver and the lungs and the kidneys
wear out after certain number of years, the brain gets sharper the more
it's used. Indeed, it improves with use. Further, the functional properties
of the brain cells continue to be altered throughout adult life, depending
on our life experiences.
Until our final breath, our miraculous, mysterious brain continues to change
– if we use it. Which means we can hone our intuition, perhaps the most
meaningful ingredient of successful trading.
The faster information comes at us, the more significant intuition is.
Recently as I was returning home one night, approaching the rise of the hill
that leads to my house, I suddenly found myself facing a car hurtling
toward me in my lane as it passed an 18-wheeler. The car was probably
going 90 while I was at 75. What was at work – my subconscious, intuition,
experience, or all the above?
News flashes and economic releases can create similar conditions.
For decades I have offered primers, online foundational courses, and
intensives for an international audience of traders dedicated to the craft of
market understanding. Many of these traders, while well-intentioned,
continue to focus on the wrong material.
My goal in this book is to focus on meaningful material whose practical
application will assist you in developing your intuition. Our brains are far
more powerful than we give them credit for.
It is my premise that intuition grows through the right practical experience.
Intuition is where it all comes together: it is the indispensable product of
our experience, our knowledge, and our will to know and do more. It's
my opinion that, contrary to popular belief, we cannot truly experience
the spark of intuition in a field in which we have little practical
knowledge.
—Garry Kasparov, Former World Chess Champion
SELF-AWARENESS (AN ONGOING
ENDEAVOR)
If you're reading this section and feeling impatient – Get me to the
examples! – you are likely headed for trouble. You might pause and assess
whether or not you're committed to the work and study and focus it takes to
be a professional trader.
I'm not smart enough to make decisions with no time to think. I make
actual decisions very rapidly, but that's because I have spent so much
time preparing.
—Charlie Munger, Investor and Philanthropist
OceanofPDF.com
CHAPTER FOUR
IS OUR TRADING APPROACH DIFFERENT?
The answer to that question is yes and no. There are certainly times to be in
sync with the market, as well as times when you should question the
market's current direction.
A popular strategy is “momentum trading,” which is based on a single
dimension: recent prices. Its basic assumption is that assets that have been
performing well are more likely to perform well in the future, and those
performing poorly are more likely to perform poorly in the future.
Momentum trading's popularity is based on its simplicity and ease of
implementation.
But a single indicator (price) can never provide the all-important context
necessary to understand what is really going on. Consider momentum to be
a leading indicator, while market-generated information is the lagging
indicator. Together they provide a much more dimensional picture of true
market intention.
Earlier, we pointed out that entry into trading requires nothing more than a
few thousand dollars and an account – there's no required training,
certification, or any other barrier to entry. It would be simple to understand
the appeal of momentum trading if the majority of momentum traders were
inexperienced. However, that's not the case. Momentum trading is strongly
supported by many large, established hedge funds; both short- and long-
term momentum trading is pervasive throughout the institutional trading
world.
The more it's endorsed, the more self-assured traders and institutions
become. Is it possible that momentum trading is the basis for bubbles?
REGULAR/IRREGULAR MARKET
Over the long term, the market has followed a regular pattern: an upward
trend with occasional downturns. As short-term traders, we're faced with
quite a different market.
In the short term, markets can be highly irregular, with daily price
fluctuations influenced by a wide range of factors, from news to economic
announcements and investor sentiment. This sentiment often manifests by
being either too pessimistic or too optimistic, and these extremes can lead to
short-covering rallies and long-liquidating breaks. Other irregular events –
like economic crises, market bubbles, and unexpected news – also
contribute to irregularity.
For the uninitiated, this irregularity can be sorely vexing (if not hellish), but
for the seasoned trader, it can offer excellent trade opportunities.
PRICE, TIME, AND VOLUME
While there are numerous momentum indicators to guide you – such as
Relative Strength Index (RSI), Moving Average Convergence/Divergence
(MACD), and Scholastic Oscillator – they are all developed from a single
indicator: price.
But price is only a single dimension.
The difference in my core philosophy begins with the introduction of the
Market Profile, a distribution curve that incorporates three dimensions:
price, time, and volume. Price advertises opportunity, time regulates all
opportunities, and volume measures the success or failure of the advertised
opportunities.
Scientists have always used distribution curves to organize data; the better
the data is organized, the easier it is to discover important insights. The
Market Profile is simply a way of organizing the market's unfolding auction
process in a continuously evolving, three-dimensional graphic. This
structure allows the savvy trader to visualize significant market
information, like short covering, long liquidation, and overly emotional
market development.
Neuroscience confirms that our brains are geared to learn from visual cues.
The Profile simplifies market-information analysis through graphical
visualization, advancing our understanding of what is happening in the
present moment, and enhancing our ability to interpret complex data.
THE AUCTION PROCESS
The bids and offers coming from all over the world are distributed via a
two-way, continuous auction process. Historically, that process was carried
out through open outcry on exchange floors. The world has changed for the
better: Bids and offers are now displayed electronically, which greatly
increases transparency for the public.
This ease of entry has likely contributed to increased short-term volatility,
but most of these new traders have little training and limited experience.
They depend on chat rooms, lean on rudimentary technical analysis, and
over-emphasize the never-ending cavalcade of news events.
The temporary market convolutions that result from this reactionary
approach to trading is where opportunity lies for those who are able to keep
an eye on the larger picture, focusing instead on momentum and value as
revealed in the market structure.
To illustrate, let's begin with a simple one-way auction from high to low. An
auctioneer describes a beautiful piece of art, addressing participants both in
the auction hall and on the phone. He initially tries to get the auction
underway by soliciting bids for $100,000. No one responds at that price, so
the auctioneer attempts to excite the crowd to get bidding rolling, starting
lower and finding a bidder at $96,500, immediately followed by bids at
$97,000, $97,500, $98,000, and so on until the bids are well over the
original $100,000 level.
You experience these auctions every day in futures and equities markets.
Reflect on the diffusion model – innovators, early adopters, early majority,
late majority, and finally the laggards. Which are you?
The auction dynamics continue. If higher bids start to cut off activity, you
hear the auctioneer begin to add filler, attempting to make the auction feel
exciting despite waning interest. At other times, higher prices attract more
activity and the auctioneer exclaims, “New bidders!”
A one-directional up auction is still complex, but it only deals with bids. In
the futures and equity markets, competing bids and offers are continually
arriving from everywhere.
LIQUIDITY AND TRANSPARENCY
The purpose of the continuous, two-way auction process is to facilitate
trade among market participants. While screen-based trading provides
transparency, multiple strategies employed by larger institutional clients can
cloud your view.
Screen-based trading provides a platform for buyers and sellers who assist
with price discovery and liquidity – “liquidity” meaning the ease with
which market participants can buy or sell without significantly impacting
price. The auction process helps ensure that there are multiple participants
willing to buy or sell at any given time.
The best, most reliable liquidity normally occurs when the NYSE (New
York Stock Exchange) is open (for our purposes, we're referring to U.S.
markets). Efficient price discovery and liquidity are greatly reduced during
non-NYSE hours. This phenomenon is likely to evolve over time.
Liquidity contributes to price stability. The auction process allows the
market to continuously adjust to changes in supply and demand. When
demand exceeds supply, prices tend to rise, and when supply exceeds
demand, prices tend to fall. While extreme price fluctuations do occur, the
dynamic auction process helps dampen major movements.
The auction process also serves as a risk-management mechanism that
empowers you to quickly increase or decrease your exposure. While there is
24-hour trading for many instruments, I still observe that liquidity is by far
the most optimal during NYSE hours. In fact, the data sample size is simply
too low for overnight validation of market activity at this time.
VISUALIZATION
The transition from open outcry to screen trading brought with it enhanced
learning through visualization. Peter Steidlmayer and the Chicago Board of
Trade developed the Market Profile in conjunction with this paradigm shift
in trading activity.
Visualization enhances comprehension by simplifying complex ideas. As I
have studied visualization methods over the years, it has become clear that
visual memories tend to stick in our minds better than text-based
information.
Successful trading is creative problem-solving, enhanced through
visualization.
In many professions, the creation and interpretation of visual
representations are essential. Trading is no exception. Can you imagine
architects without blueprints, engineers without schematics, or data
scientists unable to use charts and graphs to solve problems?
Visualization is also important for fueling your all-important intuition. It
helps connect the dots between disparate concepts and divergent
information sources, enabling us to make meaningful connections, identify
patterns, and reach conclusions more effectively.
Finally, speed and reaction times are vital – especially for short-term
trading. Being able to visualize developing market conditions can provide
an advantage, and that is where the bulk of the “Fundamentals” section will
focus.
The formulation of the problem is often more essential than its solution.
—Albert Einstein
OceanofPDF.com
CHAPTER FIVE
MARKET UNDERSTANDING ONLY GOES SO
FAR
Emotional intelligence, also known as emotional quotient (EQ), is your
ability to understand and manage your emotions. EQ is instrumental in
communicating effectively and overcoming challenges. The only way to
achieve trading success is by combining market understanding with self-
understanding, and EQ is an integral component of the latter.
As I admitted in the Introduction, self-understanding was perhaps the most
prominent barrier to my early trading efforts. Despite a well-developed
rigor for observing and evaluating market-generated information, I often let
my emotions skew my decisions toward factors like availability bias
(relying too much on what readily comes to mind) and recency bias
(overemphasizing the latest information when estimating future events).
These undiagnosed biases were detrimental to my profitability.
In the early chapters of my career, I was a counter-trend trader. In
retrospect, my ego was leading the way, as I generally believed I was
smarter than the market. This narrow-minded approach kept me from
developing a broader perspective, and the results made it clear I needed to
seek a new approach to trading.
Day trading is a volatile, high-pressure endeavor. It involves making rapid
decisions based on subtle market indicators. Having a well-developed EQ
enhances your ability to navigate this process effectively.
KNOW THYSELF
Self-awareness, a key component of EQ, is necessary to first recognize and
then manage your shifting emotional states. You might be influenced by
apprehension when the market moves against a trade. You could feel a surge
of greed when you start doing make-believe math when things swing your
way.
These emotions lead to impulsive decisions. Acknowledgment is the
starting point.
Traders with high self-awareness can better understand and control their
emotional responses, preventing rash actions from doing serious financial
damage.
Emotional resilience is another key component of successful trading. We all
make bad decisions. We all get unduly influenced by confirmation bias,
when we look for proof of our preconceived notions, ignoring anything that
tells a different story.
The ability to bounce back from these setbacks, losses, and unexpected
market shifts is vital for getting clear-headed for the next trade. And the one
after that.
You can advance your self-understanding by expressing the shifting nature
of your emotional states; when you write down your feelings, it becomes
easier to understand and reckon with them. Over time, you'll get better at
recognizing those times when you're riled, when you're not trading from a
calm, balanced perspective.
And in those times, you'll make an important decision: You won't trade.
A positive practice you can adopt to make progress on the road to expert
trading is to keep a detailed trade journal, carefully noting the
circumstances, assumptions, and emotional states you were experiencing
before, during, and after every trade. Over time, you will begin to see
patterns and learn how to focus your attention to improve your odds of
success. We'll discuss journaling in more detail at the end of the book.
It may not be possible to know who you are without somehow
expressing it.
—Rick Rubin, Author and Legendary Record Producer
The story you tell yourself is the most powerful influence in the world. The
stories we tell ourselves about the events that unfold in our lives become
our “truths,” and if we're not careful, we can build decision-making systems
on a shaky foundation of unfounded opinions and emotional surges that can
codify erroneous beliefs.
Eventually we start believing, even if the stories we tell ourselves are not
true.
BE HERE NOW
No matter how you have come to a decision, you ultimately make that
decision in the present moment – the only “time” in which you have any
power to influence your fate. We can spend endless hours worrying over the
past or trying to guess at the future, but it is only in the “now” that we are
actually alive and able to express our agency.
When a trade goes badly, it's easy to get knocked back on your heels,
consumed with worry that it will happen again. That's why so many traders
make cardinal errors, holding onto losing trades in hopes that they'll turn
around (hope) or taking profits too soon, before a trade has a chance to
develop (fear).
One of the most powerful steps you can take to becoming a successful
trader is to embrace a process – and it's different for every individual – that
enables you to let go of past trades, both good and bad, in order to focus on
what is actually happening, right now, in the market unfolding before you.
Not what you hope is happening. Not what you fear might occur.
That's where the power of market-generated information is key, because it
can serve as a doorway to the present moment.
My first educational effort was a tape set entitled “Operating in the Present
Tense.” Once it was released, I received accusations that I was parroting
Phil Jackson, head coach of the Chicago Bulls during their 1990's NBA
championship runs. I lived in Chicago and was certainly a Bulls fan, but
had not read Phil's book at that point.
I have read his book since, and entirely agree with his philosophy.
The secret of the Bull's success was dealing in the present tense. Play the
current game, not yesterday's or tomorrow's.
—Phil Jackson
YOUR BRAIN IS PLASTIC
“Neural plasticity” is the fundamental property of the brain that enables
endless reconfiguring of synaptic connections based on environmental
inputs, mediated by your focus. Your brain has an inherent potential for
transformation; where you pay attention becomes who you are.
Understanding the malleability of neural circuits illuminates the remarkable
capacity of the brain to adapt and reshape itself in response to experiences.
Comprehending this plasticity reframes our understanding of learning and
adaptation.
The brain refines neural connections based on the consequences of every
decision you make. Poor decisions, when repeated, become a neural
superhighway that makes it even easier to rationalize and make up stories
about what you'd like to happen, rather than what is actually happening.
The recognition that neural circuits can be rewired encourages a more
considered approach to decision-making; a continuous exploration of our
own subjective experience fosters cognitive agility and resilience in the face
of dynamic challenges.
Neuroscience reveals that deliberate engagement – when we're focused on
objective, actionable information – refines neural pathways, enhancing
cognitive functions that influence the way we make decisions.
Understanding the brain's plastic nature enables us to mold our cognitive
landscape. We can improve the clarity of our focus. We can make less
emotional decisions.
There is an enormous difference between being hostage to one's thoughts
and being freely and nonjudgmentally aware of life in the present.
—Sam Harris, Philosopher, Neuroscientist, and Author
Forge a new neural network before your next trade: Create a new routine
that involves thorough preparation prior to the market opening. Keep notes
as you develop this new practice, so you can track your progress and hold
yourself accountable.
Personal momentum is more important than market momentum. Many
traders give up on preparation and homework when the results aren't
immediate. Just a couple percent points of change become significant after
you've been doing it for six months.
OceanofPDF.com
CHAPTER SIX
YOU CAN'T ALWAYS FORGET WHAT YOU
WANT
Even with a plastic brain, it's challenging to unlearn behaviors, especially
when they've been repeated year after year.
It's estimated that less than 10% of short-term traders make money. And it's
unlikely that it's the same 10% from one year to the next. When I ran a
discount futures brokerage firm in the 1980s, the average account lasted just
seven weeks!
Consider again the metaphor of the superhighway that represents “the way
you've always done it,” the dominant patterns of your mind. Now you're
tasked with scratching out a new route through untamed wilderness. The
good news is that we can pave these new pathways toward more objective,
rational ends.
But it takes courage to change.
In order to unlearn counterproductive habits, you must invest the time
required to observe and understand your own behaviors. In that pursuit, it
can be helpful to understand the mechanisms of unlearning.
The most powerful tool for changing cognitive behaviors is known as
“pruning.” As we dedicate effort to learning new things, your brain
strengthens connections between neurons in active use, while weakening
connections between those no longer required to fire – all depending on
where we train our active focus. This “pruning” process effectively pares
away thought processes that are no longer useful.
Reading this book will help rewire your brain. In the ensuing Part II,
“Fundamentals,” I'll be sharing specific examples of patterns that allow you
to take advantage of temporary imbalances in unfolding market structure.
By studying these new concepts and practices, you'll be triggering your
“mirror neuron” system, which activates when we observe someone
performing an action. We can learn new skills and behaviors through
imitation.
UNLEARNING IS HARD
Brain science is fascinating, and it helps rub away at the fogged mirror so
we can better understand the way we respond to the world. A better self-
understanding also helps motivate us through the slow, effortful process of
changing behaviors – we can use our powerful rationalization engine to
remind ourselves that this focused attention, over time, will break bad
habits and overcome the biases that prevent us from seeing clearly what is
happening in real time.
The biggest obstacle to unlearning is mental inertia; our brains tend to stick
to established patterns and knowledge. That tendency saved our lives when
the challenge was daily survival, but in a modern digital context, it can be
catastrophic.
We also become emotionally attached to beliefs. We involve our ego,
associating our own worth with opinions we may not even be able to
support. Letting go of these ideas can be uncomfortable – they may have
shaped our self-esteem.
We've already mentioned confirmation bias, when we seek data that
confirms existing beliefs. This bias makes it difficult to unlearn because we
either actively or unconsciously tend to avoid exposure to perspectives that
may challenge our own.
UNCERTAINTY IS HARDER
Unlearning involves moving into uncharted territory. This can be unsettling
because we all crave comfort, and launching into unfamiliar terrain requires
extra effort. And when that effort results in cognitive dissonance – new
information conflicting with old beliefs – the mental discomfort can send
you running back to your neural highway.
In fact, cognitive dissonance may be the leading cause of trader failure. It
has often been said that the test of a first-rate intelligence is the ability to
hold two opposing ideas in mind at the same time, while still maintaining
the ability to function. But for many, having two conflicting thoughts at the
same time leads to paralysis. Or worse: we ignore the dissonance and fall
into old, familiar habits.
We resist new information and cling to old beliefs.
No matter how self-aware, we all have habits. Unlearning them requires
changing established routines that are often deeply ingrained in the fabric of
our daily lives. And acquiring new skills is time-consuming! In this age of
social media, streaming platforms, and push technology claiming our
attention 24 hours a day, it's easy to resist any activity that requires a
substantial investment of time and effort.
Want another hurdle? We all overestimate our own knowledge and abilities.
This overconfidence makes it hard to admit that what we learned in the past
is outdated. Add peer pressure, social norms, and cultural expectations, and
you can see why it's so difficult to unlearn behaviors of any sort.
Let alone habits related to profits. And loss.
The first thing you have to know is yourself. A man who knows himself
can step outside himself and watch his own reactions like an observer.
—Adam Smith
OceanofPDF.com
CHAPTER SEVEN
UNLEARNING
For 30+ years I've maintained that the biggest mistake traders make is
fading trend days – an observation I was first alerted to by J. Peter
Steidlmayer when I sponsored his first book, Markets & Market Logic, in
1986. Shortly after a mutual friend brought us together, I realized the
significance of Pete's observation.
Pete introduced me to the concept of placing time (a constant) on the
horizontal axis, and price (a variable) on the vertical axis, so market activity
can be organized under a distribution curve – enter the Market Profile. At
the time, the concept of “market-generated information” was in its infancy.
After our first meeting, Pete left and headed toward the elevator. I'm
grateful that he turned around, walked back into my office, and asked,
“Would you like to sponsor my book?”
I asked, “How much?”
I handed him a check for $10,000, thus beginning my journey with the
Market Profile and my love affair with market-generated information.
NOT FADE AWAY
My first memorable financial transaction was the purchase of a ‘49 Chevy.
Observing my dad interact with auto dealers, I learned that the seller would
offer a price to which my father would immediately respond with a lower
bid – a logical response.
Applying similar learned logic as a trader can result in significant losses on
downward-trend days. To be successful, traders must embrace a whole new
logic that keys off the behavior of competitors, as revealed in developing
market structure.
On downward-trend days, many traders can't resist the quest for an
emotional high by attempting to buy the low for the day. When successful,
it makes for great stories at cocktail hour. When this attempt is
unsuccessful, however, they tend to immediately become sellers, which
drives prices even lower. Then if they don't liquidate – because taking the
loss is too emotionally upsetting – the financial risk skyrockets.
Ego gets in the way: “I'm right. Those other traders are stupid.”
Upward trend days are the mirror image of this phenomenon. The ego trap
of chasing tops and bottoms, for me, resulted in more than two decades of
unprofitability.
Every time you fade a trend day, you're solidifying a detrimental chunk.
That's where the real work begins if you want to increase the odds of
becoming a profitable trader.
Fading trends is just one of the many habits you must change.
Knowledge emerges from the litter of our mistakes.
—Walt Whitman
THE CHALLENGE OF LEARNING AND
TEACHING A MULTI-DIMENSIONAL SKILL
In his book, Atomic Habits, James Clear writes about the Goldilocks Rule,
which states that “Humans experience peak motivation when working on
tasks that are right on the edge of their current abilities. Not too hard. Not
too easy.”
Improvement in any endeavor requires a balance of stimulating challenges
that push your limits and measurable progress that keeps you feeling
engaged and capable.
When you're learning a new chunk (habit), it's important to keep the
information as simple as possible. Otherwise, as the markets become more
complex – or in Clear's words, “conditions aren't perfect” – you might find
yourself seeking something simpler to do.
To add to the difficulty of this endeavor, most traders will be faced with the
prospect of significant unlearning before they can advance on the path to
competence, let alone profitability.
Each reader approaches this book from a different level of experience. For
the novice, it may be hard to relate to some of these concepts. For example,
until you have actually experienced the agony of exiting a trade far too
early, or the ecstasy of pulling the trigger on a trade with an ideal location,
it can be difficult to relate to the emotional nuances of trading.
For the more seasoned trader, on the other hand, it may be difficult to open
your mind to new information, especially when it runs contrary to the
chunks you've accumulated thus far.
Learning is layered. And in order to succeed, you must be aware of which
layers you have and which you don't, as well as which layers you must peel
away and discard.
The oft-quoted “five stages of learning” can help you better understand
where you are on your quest to becoming an expert trader. It's important to
note that individuals progress through these stages at different rates, and the
process is not always linear.
1. Unconscious incompetence: Individuals are unaware of their lack of
skill or knowledge in a particular area. They don't recognize the need
to learn or improve because they don't understand their deficiencies.
2. Conscious incompetence: Individuals become aware of their lack of
skill or knowledge. They recognize the need for learning, are
conscious of their deficiencies, and begin to grasp the basics of what
must be learned.
3. Conscious competence: Individuals acquire the necessary knowledge
or skill, but need to consciously think about it – they can perform the
task or apply the knowledge, but it requires focus, effort, and
concentration. Competence is achieved, but it's not yet automatic or
effortless.
4. Unconscious competence: Individuals have mastered the skill or
knowledge to the point where it becomes second nature. The ability is
now automatic, and individuals can perform the task or apply the
knowledge without conscious effort or thought. Competence is
ingrained and becomes a natural part of their abilities.
5. Reflective competence: Individuals not only perform the skill
effectively but also reflect on their actions, seeking continuous
improvement and refinement. This involves ongoing self-assessment
and a commitment to lifelong learning.
It's not uncommon for me to read a technical book multiple times. During
subsequent reads, I'm always amazed at what I missed the first time, as I
was busy absorbing basic concepts. I encourage you to take copious notes
as you read this book so you can begin to build actionable layers of
understanding.
WE MUST FIRST AGREE TO TERMS
One of the obstacles to teaching trading (or anything) is defining a language
that allows us to communicate complex concepts in a clear, concise fashion.
The Market Profile is an effective starting point for introducing a common
language for learning.
During this read, you'll be introduced to unique terms that evolved over my
50 years of observation and trading, such as poor highs and lows, pullback
lows, and rally highs from trend days. (More on these in the ensuing Part II,
“Fundamentals.”)
Trading is a learning experience that never ends because the market is
constantly changing. It's worth repeating: There is no finish line. The
pursuit of trading success is a process with no end. Those who think they've
“mastered the markets” will quickly find that change, as they say, is the
only constant.
Because every brain has different strengths and weaknesses, we should each
approach trading in a unique way. While there are common terms and
patterns we can assess together, the moment of truth – when you place or
close a trade – is yours alone, influenced by endlessly variable
combinations of genetics, experience, environment, and emotion.
The level of difficulty is simply too high for most to stay with it. Many even
fight the basic premise that trading is not investing. Effective trading is
strongly dependent upon reading the actions of other traders, as well as
understanding your own strengths and (more importantly) weaknesses.
It's useful to revisit Malcolm Gladwell's Diffusion Model, which can be
very effective at helping traders identify the way human decisions are based
on different timeframes:
1. Innovator
2. Early adopter
3. Early majority
4. Late majority
5. Laggards
You must assess where you are on this scale, and constantly seek to
understand which of these timeframes are influencing market activity –
which type of human behavior is affecting current behavior? Constantly
seeking to find answers to these questions through unfolding, real-time
market structure is the only way to have a shot at profitability.
GO SLOWLY AND BUILD A STRONG
FOUNDATION
I'll say it again: Most traders set themselves up for failure from the very
beginning, attempting to move forward too quickly, before they've got a
handle on the multi-dimensional nature of this pursuit.
Successful trading can often be lonely. It's you against you, as much as it's
you against the market. And when we're in a difficult place, emotionally, it's
not always pleasant to repeatedly look inward in an ongoing attempt to
assess whether or not we're perceiving market momentum without bias.
Without fear or hope. Free from the influence of the subjective stories we
tell ourselves as we navigate this fluid, often bewildering reality.
Patience is the most powerful ingredient for learning. Focusing on speed
without precision never allows for a depth of understanding. When you
begin to visualize developing market structure – seeing market action as
more than constantly changing prices – you are on the right trajectory.
Beginning slowly lets you learn layer by layer, committing each layer to the
subconscious, where it becomes ingrained and fuels your all-important
intuition. Speed and precision come later.
Traders have a tendency to be seduced into believing that a single strategy
will allow them to be competitive. But there is too much variability in the
markets to rely on a single strategy. Especially one that relies on price
alone.
Strategies come in and out of fashion, usually promoted by a trader in a
chatroom, a pundit with hidden motives, or an “expert” on a book tour. My
experience and observations over the years suggest that your highest odds
of success occur when your strategy is consistent with who you are.
For example, I could never be a high-volume trader, executing five or more
trades a day. This is something I learned about myself (painfully), and now
I trade accordingly.
Before we dig into the fundamentals of understanding market structure,
reflect on how often we tend to use tunnel vision. This occurs when we're
predisposed to a specific answer, overly focused on order flow, or relying
too heavily on specific references, to name a few common trader foibles.
When you become overly focused, the brain is wired to ignore information
that runs contrary to what you're actively looking for – confirmation bias is
a constant threat.
A famous example is the experiment where you're instructed to count how
many times a basketball is dribbled, resulting in the vast majority of
viewers missing the fact that a gorilla has waltzed across the court. You
have instructed the brain to provide you with partial information, so you
miss the big picture.
Don't let the gorilla take your money.
For the instruction that follows, we have narrowed our emphasis to short-
term trading, which focuses heavily on day trading without restricting the
holding period or timeframe.
Never lose sight of Hector. Less is often more.
PROFILE CHUNKING
The majority of the following Part II, “Fundamentals,” focuses on chunking
the Market Profile. To reiterate, the Profile is simply an effective way to
structure and visualize the market's continuous, two-way auction process.
Step one will be to learn Profile nomenclature – the graphic's parts and their
significance. Once this is engrained, so you can glance at a Profile graphic
and automatically understand its components, we'll advance to chunking the
concept of “value.” We'll then advance to parsing different structures, such
as trend days, rotational days, short covering, long liquidation, and so on.
The final section of the book will provide situational examples to make
these concepts leap to life. Let's dig in…
OceanofPDF.com
PART II
FUNDAMENTALS
OceanofPDF.com
CHAPTER EIGHT
DEVELOPING DEPTH
Over the years, I have had countless conversations with traders interested in
understanding market-generated information through the Market Profile.
Occasionally these exchanges include the observation: “I'm a fast learner.”
I don't recall any of these contacts becoming noticeable traders.
Earlier we discussed some of the cognitive biases that limit our potential.
It's worth noting another one here, before we begin to study the nuts and
bolts of the Market Profile – the Dunning – Kruger Effect is the tendency
for people with a well-developed ability in one area to overestimate their
competence in another area.
Consider a doctor who has dedicated decades to the study of the human
body. Later in life they decide to become a trader, but enter the pursuit
burdened with overconfidence, thinking their hard-earned medical expertise
somehow translates to being a market expert.
I witness this costly assumption all the time.
The doctor forgets the rigorous, time-consuming, often tedious WORK that
resulted in medical success. And who wants to go through that rigamarole
all over again?
We humans are often extremely poor at evaluating probabilities, especially
if our ego gets involved. This weakness manifests in poor decision-making
while trading.
Looking back, I now realize how often I thought I couldn't possibly be
wrong. More often than not, this assumption was roughly disproven. My
intuition wasn't yet honed, and so it led me astray.
Honing intuition can challenge our naturally occurring belief that we can't
be wrong. Our biases lead to tunnel vision, and we make decisions based on
partial information, hunches, and ego.
It's hard to see our own flaws. Traders must develop safeguards against
themselves.
Our biggest weakness is not recognizing our own weakness.
—Shane Parrish, Entrepreneur, Best-selling Author, and Investor
AIM FOR DEPTH PLUS BREADTH
As established, I endorse Josh Waitzkin's principle that depth beats breadth
every time. However, when it comes to pursuing market mastery, I believe
this statement is oversimplified.
Depth includes a mastery of nuances, and market nuances cover a broad
range.
Years ago, while attending a NASCAR event in Fontana, California, I
noticed my grandson was taking little interest in what he saw as “guys
turning left all day.” But when I began to explain some of the nuances of
auto racing, his ears perked up. I explained that you can have the most
powerful engine in the world (depth), but if you don't have everything else
dialed in (breadth), you can't expect to compete at the highest level.
When do you come in for fuel? How do you tune a car for high humidity?
What is the ideal tire pressure for the current roadway conditions? How
well (or poorly) does the driver communicate with his pit crew?
When every car has the same monster engine, it is the breadth of nuances
that decides who enters the winner's circle.
Before we delve into the nuances of trading, we'll first develop the depth of
your knowledge of market structure using the Market Profile, a distribution
curve that allows us to observe data in an organized fashion.
SUCCESSFUL TRADING IS CREATIVE
PROBLEM-SOLVING
Creativity evolves from a deep understanding of the details that make up
any field's foundation. To put this in perspective, reflect on what it takes to
become any kind of professional – knowledge and experience must develop
over many years, layer by layer by layer.
Detail matters. It's not until you have internalized the details of one layer
that you're ready to move on to the next. And if you attempt to build on a
poorly understood layer, the metaphor is obvious: you'll have a shaky
foundation, and your whole trading approach can come tumbling down
under live-market pressure.
Few appreciate the patience that is required to fully embrace this approach
to learning.
The successful trader is able to recall important details, particularly when
under stress. The recall of these details is what leads to effective creative
solutions. Those less patient are unlikely to have incorporated vital details,
rendering them oblivious to the ephemeral nature of developing market
opportunities.
If you realistically approach learning to trade as a layered process, your
chances will increase substantially.
Let's review some of the basic steps.
1. Skill development: It requires dedicated time and effort to develop
your abilities. There will be continuous practice, training, and
improvement. There are no shortcuts. Athletes train vigorously,
musicians constantly rehearse, and surgeons must constantly seek to
improve their craft.
2. Survivorship bias: Countless people have attempted to trade over the
years. Only the best have survived, which makes the competition more
difficult for new traders. In fact, what gives the novice a fighting
chance is the continuous arrival of other novices. You need a strong
competitive element to drive you forward.
3. Commitment: You must be willing to put in the time and effort
required to excel, often at the expense of other activities and interests.
4. Mental toughness: The psychological aspect of trading is crucial –
coping with being buffeted by shifting emotions and constant
interruptions. Athletes, musicians, and skilled practitioners of all kinds
must constantly deal with setbacks and self-doubt.
5. Passion and drive: An intrinsic motivation is present in all those who
excel in individual endeavors. Those who succeed have a love for the
activity itself, combined with a competitive spirit and appreciation for
the work involved in becoming proficient – let alone an expert!
This layered learning approach is ever present as I write and mentor. I
encourage you to take some time to examine the elements presented here,
and consider whether or not you're ready, willing, and ultimately driven to
embrace the rigorous, ongoing practice of balancing your emotions,
knowledge, and focus in order to beat the odds.
MARKET UNDERSTANDING + SELF-
UNDERSTANDING + STRATEGY = RESULTS
For the beginner, it's crucial to build a solid foundation rooted in the
fundamentals of time, price, and volume. While developing this knowledge
base, it's difficult to resist the allure of rushing to test your nascent
understanding in the market, but that impatience to trade can actually hinder
your progress toward a profitable career, ingraining bad habits you may not
have even identified yet, let alone resolved.
The experienced trader, on the other hand, faces an even more daunting
challenge. Like Hector the Collector, traders who have struggled to find
success have accumulated a great pile of mental junk that feels like treasure,
simply because it has been carried around for so long. This trader must
confront the greatest obstacle of all: unlearning a mess of preconceived
notions.
Each of us has automatic habits. We have habits in movement. Habits in
speech, thought, and perception. Habits in being ourselves. Some of
them have been practiced every day since we were children. A pathway
gets carved into the brain and becomes difficult to change. Most of these
habits control us, beyond our decisions, to the point they function
autonomously and automatically. When we stay open and pay close
attention, it is possible to recognize these less helpful habits and soften
their spell. And begin to explore new practices.
—Rick Rubin, The Creative Act: A Way of Being
OceanofPDF.com
CHAPTER NINE
TIME AND SHORT-TERM TRADING
The first layer of information is often exciting and novel. And those delving
into the first layer often seek to take each piece of new information and act
on it, testing the fragment in the kiln of market activity.
As we have established, this is a mistake.
Experts who have mastered many layers see layer-one information as basic
and nuanced – simply part of the foundation upon which they have layered
countless additional observations, experiences, and insights.
As we delve into market-generated information, make sure you take time to
appreciate the importance of patience in building your knowledge base. If
you're able to build a solid foundation – which takes time and dedication to
develop – you will eventually become a more agile, confident, creative
problem-solver.
When the fundamentals are deeply ingrained, you can begin to recognize
temporary market imbalances like a batter can read the seams on a slider.
That's when you can make progress toward profitability.
We always hope for the easy fix: the one simple change that will erase a
problem in a stroke. But few things in life work this way. Instead,
success requires making a hundred small steps go right—one after the
other.
—Atul Gawande, Better: A Surgeon's Notes on Performance
KNOW YOUR TIMEFRAME
If you are to become a successful short-term trader, you must first identify
and address your biases – many of which you may not even realize you
have.
The most relevant bias I've observed among short-term traders relates to
separating short-term trading from investing. These two approaches are
distinctly different when you break down the time horizon, objectives, and
strategies related to each.
When traders fail to maintain vigilance around this distinction, they tend to
focus on luck and wishful thinking, rather than clearly developing a
challenging skill. They're also more susceptible to being whip-sawed by
financial news that targets investors.
The standard definition says short-term traders aim to profit from short-
term price movements ranging from seconds to months, while investors
maintain time horizons that span years or even decades as they pursue value
over time.
The primary execution mode at Jim Dalton Trading is day timeframe. But
don't be misled by the word “day” in that context – our trades can extend
for several days, depending on the developing opportunity and market
movements. We don't trade in a vacuum; our process includes an ongoing
assessment of the long, intermediate, and short timeframes, all of which
must be considered as you assess real-time activity.
You can't profit from temporary market convolutions unless you understand
when and how the various timeframes are interacting and influencing what
you observe.
OBJECTIVES
Short-term traders attempt to capitalize on price fluctuations, regardless of
the underlying assets' long-term prospects. They seek to generate quick
profits by buying low and selling high, or selling high and buying low in the
case of short selling.
Earlier, we addressed how “top-step traders” could occasionally benefit
when the majority of short-term traders were literally leaning the wrong
way. Your goal should be to focus on harnessing market-generated
information to make a similar assessment when timing your buys and sells.
Organizing the market's continuous two-way auction process via the Market
Profile is an invaluable tool in making this assessment.
Investors seek to build wealth over time. They're focused on the
fundamentals of an asset, such as earnings potential, dividends, and growth
prospects. Short-term traders seek to identify temporary imbalances when
irrational human behavior – revealed in unfolding market structure –
reveals short-term opportunities.
RISK AND VOLATILITY
Short-term trading can involve higher levels of risk and volatility. And
short-term traders tend to use leveraged and advanced trading strategies to
amplify potential returns, which increases emotional and financial risk –
both of which can increase the odds of significant losses.
Investors focused on the long term accept market fluctuations, secure in
their belief that their investments will appreciate over time; their risk
tolerance is substantially lower than the comparatively frenetic behavior of
short-term traders.
TRANSACTION COSTS
Frequent short-term trading usually leads to higher transaction costs that
include brokerage fees and the spread between bid and offer, which can be a
substantial hidden cost, as well as taxes if you're profitable. And if you're
unprofitable, the yearly write-off is limited.
While short-term trading and investing are not mutually exclusive, we
strongly suggest that they be carried out in different accounts at different
brokerage firms. This will reduce the odds of long-term biases impacting
short-term trading.
The unexamined long-term bias has undone many short-term traders'
careers.
ANALYSIS
Investors typically focus on fundamental analysis, such as a company's
financial health, competitive position, industry trends, and long-term
growth prospects. Short-term traders are more concerned with market
sentiment and price patterns, relying on technical analysis, charts, and
short-term indicators to make quick decisions.
The Market Profile empowers traders to execute short-term decisions free
of the weight and tangle of conflicting news, analysis, and scuttlebutt; it
offers an unbiased look at the way price, time, and volume interact to
provide vital clues.
If you don't read the newspaper, you're uninformed. If you read the
newspaper, you're misinformed.
—Mark Twain
OceanofPDF.com
CHAPTER TEN
READING THE SIGNS AND FINDING VALUE
When you think about it, “trading” is core to everyone. We all make choices
– trading one option for another – in everything we do.
It's challenging to teach trading because it's incredibly multidimensional,
and there are multiple ways to address every cognitive challenge you'll
encounter, with various sources of information, advice, and distraction.
That's why it's so important to define a common language that enables
communication about the essential components of trading. No matter how
well I understand the market, I can't share that knowledge with you if I'm
not able to communicate my experience in a way that connects.
The Market Profile and its simple, objective method of organizing
information provide that common language. It enables me to translate 50
years of market observation and trading experience and give it to you.
Trading is a learning experience with constantly changing data and
permutations. Again, there are many ways to approach trading, but in this
book we have narrowed our focus to short-term trading, which focuses
heavily on day trading without restricting the holding period or timeframe.
It's worth noting, however, that day-timeframe trading is relevant to all
timeframes – no matter what your timeframe, whenever you enter or exit
the market you're a day-timeframe trader.
SIGNS, EVERYWHERE THE SIGNS
It's December 10, 2023, as I'm writing this chapter. On The Amazing Race,
an adventure reality game show in which teams seek objectives around the
world, a father-and-son team is currently in third place. The father, a
teaching assistant and football coach, is deaf. I find it amazing to watch the
way he and his son communicate through sign language, even when one is
driving, and the other is in the back seat.
“Signing” is also natural in music, conveying instructions like tempo and
volume. Traders with an active imaginative mind will realize that the
Market Profile provides “signs” that enable them to actively understand
what the market is communicating. The “p”-shaped Profile in Figure 10.1,
for example, signals short covering, while the “b”-shaped Profile in Figure
10.2 signals long liquidation.

Figure 10.1 “p”-Shaped Profile

Figure 10.2 “b”-Shaped Profile
As you learn to read the signs, you'll begin to associate short covering with
a market that has gotten too short to trade any lower. When markets become
too short, the short inventory provides temporary support because traders
have to buy in order to cover their short positions.
The “p” shape is an indication that the buying was old business. (Traders
were unwinding previous trades.) Had there been a more balanced
combination of short covering and new-money buying, the Profile would
have been more elongated. There's an old market adage: Sometimes markets
become too short to go any lower and must rally before they can break
further.
Conversely, a “b”-shaped Profile signals that the market has gotten too long
to go any higher; an overabundance of overly enthusiastic buyers has
accumulated too much inventory.
There's another adage in the market: Sometimes markets must break before
they can rally. This is simply another way of communicating that inventory
has gotten too long. Had there been more balanced selling (a healthier mix
of old and new business), the Profile would have been more elongated.
The truncated Profiles in both examples communicate “old business.” A
one-dimensional look – a line of prices – would not have communicated the
real context of the price moves.
Much learning does not teach understanding.
—Heraclitus, Greek Philosopher
MARKETS RUN ON INFORMATION
The three primary sources for market information are company
fundamentals, economic fundamentals, and technical data. Historically,
technical information has been price-based, but as we've established, price
alone lacks context. The Market Profile provides that all-important context
by incorporating time and volume – the fundamentals of any financial
transaction.
To read and interpret the signs generated by those three components, the
Profile organizes market-generated information under a distribution curve,
just as scientists employ “bell curves” to study and interpret data. What is
less recognized is that the structure of these distribution curves offers
actionable insight into who is in control of current market activity.
The Market Profile allows us to visualize many complex patterns that result
from the interaction of time, price, and volume. This visualization makes it
easier to identify short covering, long liquidation, trend days, double
distribution trend days, and relative balance, to name a few salient
indicators.
A distribution curve compares a constant on the horizontal axis with a
variable on the vertical axis. The brilliant observation by J. Peter
Steidlmayer, a Stanford statistics major, was that time (a constant that's a
component of any financial transaction) when placed on the horizontal
access, allows price (a variable) to form the developing distribution curve
of the Market Profile.
The Market Profile reveals signs that help market participants –
continuously entering and exiting the market – better manage risk.
The Profile organizes information in the form of individual Time – Price
Opportunities, or “TPOs.” Every letter on the Profile is a TPO, starting with
the letter “A” which represents the first 30-minute period after the market
opens. This organization allows us to observe developing market structure,
similar to the way you can look at the foundations of a house under
construction and visualize what might eventually be built there; a small
foundation is unlikely to become a skyscraper, and a large foundation won't
result in a cozy cabin.
Figure 10.3 Example of POC Migration
At this point, begin to appreciate the importance of experience and
imagination in getting an intuitive feel for what may be developing.
While the Profile in Figure 10.3 does not represent a completed day, it will
give you a feel for how this particular day developed through the first eight
30-minute periods. Integral to this approach is identifying the Point of
Control, or “POC,” the fairest price at which business is being conducted.
The POC is the longest line of TPOs closest to the center of the Profile's
range.
In Figure 10.3, the bold element in each column represents the POC for that
time period. As you will notice, the line gradually descends to the right
through the first eight periods. The descending POC informs us that the
fairest price is gradually moving lower.
You'll know you're gaining experience and becoming comfortable with the
Profile when you begin to intuitively recognize the migration of the POC
(either up or down). When POC movement begins to feel more natural, it's
a sign that your intuition and imagination are working together to identify
what is happening in the market in real time, in terms of developing value.
The POC is the starting point for calculating the Profile's “Value Area.”
Let's study the significance of this valuable indicator of market intention.
TIME REGULATES ALL FINANCIAL
OPPORTUNITIES
In any financial transaction, there's a difference between price and value.
Unless the price is fixed, the value is determined via negotiation. When we
go to the supermarket, for example, we engage in a silent auction – we can
either accept or reject the store's prices. When we reject an item's price,
inventory accumulates on the shelf.
A more common negotiation occurs when we purchase a car. While
occasionally we have to bid above the sticker price (prevalent during the
pandemic amidst supply shortages), more commonly the sticker price is
simply the starting point and we negotiate lower.
In stock and futures markets, price is determined via a continuous, two-way
auction. Through this price-discovery process the market is attempting to
discover value.
The heart of the Market Profile is the “Value Area,” which represents
approximately 70% (one standard deviation) of the Profile's daily range.
The POC is the starting point for calculating the Value Area, which is an
iterative process. First, count the total number of TPOs, including the single
prints. Take 70% of this number to establish how many TPOs approximate
70% of the day's volume. Then examine the two prices above and below the
longest line on the Profile, adding the two with the greater number of TPOs
either above or below the original longest line. If the two lines above the
fairest price include more TPOs than the two lines below the fairest price,
you add the two lines above. If the two lines above are lower in count, then
the lines are added below the POC. This iterative process continues until
70% of the TPOs are included (Figure 10.4).
Figure 10.4 Calculating the Value Area
Once the Value Area is defined, we can begin to assess existing and
developing relationships relative to value. Some examples: price and value
could be identical; price could be above or below value; price could be
positioned to return to value; or in a trending market, value could be in the
process of moving toward price.
Price moves quickly, while value develops slowly. The artistry of trading is
evident in this phase; successful traders exhibit their experience by
remaining patient as value reveals itself amidst the froth and turmoil of
changing prices. The art lies in separating constantly shifting price
variations from the deeper clues of developing value.
If traders did nothing more than trade in the direction of the trend, or
in the direction of developing value, they'd have a much better chance
of success.
The importance of this statement is easily overlooked when emotions are
surging and price volatility is high.
While the relationship between price and value is always relevant, it's only
a single aspect of the Market Profile. The Profile also enables us to observe
when prices are being made on increasing or decreasing volume, which is
an important indicator we'll analyze throughout this section.
Our brains dedicate more space to vision than all of the other senses
combined. That's one reason why the Profile is such a helpful tool in
visualizing unfolding market information – it simplifies extraordinarily
complex information in a way we can clearly see.
Figure 10.5 features a series of Profiles that enables you to visualize some
of the day-to-day value relationships that provide important clues:
overlapping value, overlapping-to-higher value, and clearly higher value.
As you gain experience, your imagination kicks in, assisting you in
visualizing not only what is happening but also what is likely to happen.
When you reach this stage, you're becoming a more creative trader, and
successful trading is creative problem-solving.
Figure 10.5 Series of Profiles Showing Value Area Relationships
OceanofPDF.com
CHAPTER ELEVEN
BUILDING ON THE FOUNDATION
Consider again the analogy of a building's foundation to mentally prepare
yourself to analyze the structural foundation of a market, as revealed in the
Market Profile. Blueprints provide detailed, comprehensive plans for
building a structure which only experienced professionals can interpret.
This comparison will help you accept the training necessary to read and
follow “market blueprints” in order to improve your odds of success.
Over the years, I have turned down many lucrative individual mentoring
sessions. I've done so because I believe the individuals being mentored
would not receive commensurate value. While I might be able to convey
what is required to be a competent trader in a couple of weeks to a month,
it's just not possible for anyone to assimilate the necessary information in
such a short period of time.
How would you react to being offered a one-month course on how to
become an expert surgeon, pro baseball player, or top-tier management
consultant?
It seems simple: buy low and sell high or sell high and buy low – what's so
difficult?
Trading, like any worthwhile pursuit, is a lifelong learning journey.
The fact is that when there is intense competition, those who succeed
have slightly more honed skills than the rest. It is rarely a mysterious
technique that drives us to the top, but rather a profound mastery of what
may well be a basic skill set. Depth beats breadth any day of the week,
because it opens a channel for the intangible, unconscious, creative
components of our hidden potential.
—Josh Waitzkin, The Art of Learning
BEGINNING TO INTERPRET THE MARKET
PROFILE BLUEPRINT
As a refresher, the Market Profile is a visual representation of the market's
continuous, two-way auction process. Refer to the Figure 11.1 for the
following discussion of a few critical indicators revealed in the Profile's
evolving structure.
In the buying tail scenario, in A period, the first trading session of the day,
price auctioned lower until buyers were discovered. Unless there are at least
two single TPO prints, we don't define this activity as a “buying tail.” The
lack of a buying tail generally indicates that selling has dried-up, while a
buying tail shows a more aggressive buyer response. The lack of a buying
tail often indicates an unfinished auction, which produces higher odds of
those price levels being revisited.
Figure 11.1 Components of the Profile
In the selling tail scenario, in F period, the market auctioned high enough to
discover sellers. Had there been no selling tail, price would have simply
auctioned high enough until the market ran out of buyers (bidders). No
selling tail – similar to “no buying tail” – indicates the auction is probably
not complete, increasing the odds that the high will be revisited.
Rather than simply attempting to memorize the definition of buying/selling
tails, take a moment to reflect on the different reactions that can occur
within the auction process. In A period, the auction could have simply
stopped when the market ran out of sellers. As happened in Figure 11.1,
lower prices attracted buyers, which is the most commonly expected
reaction. A more aggressive response would have found lower prices
bringing in more selling.
In F period, the market auctioned high enough to discover sellers, which is
the expected response. In the mirror image relative to the buying tail, the
buying could have simply dried up. Again, a more aggressive response
would have been for higher prices to attract even more buyers.
Your goal is to learn to intuitively grasp whether lower/higher prices
are bringing in more activity or cutting off activity.
POINT OF CONTROL AND VALUE AREA
We previously discussed the Point of Control (POC) as the fairest price at
which business is being conducted (see Chapter 10). The POC is the focal
point for determining value. A more dynamic appreciation, as you deepen
your experience observing the development of the Market Profile, will
enable you to estimate how the Value Area for a given day relates to the
previous day: unchanged, higher, overlapping to higher, overlapping to
lower, or lower.
The majority of traders focus solely on price. A smaller (though increasing)
number of traders focus on value. A subset of those value traders have also
learned to appreciate how value shifts.
Another reminder: Price moves quickly while value moves much more
slowly. With experience, you'll begin to understand the conditions under
which price will catch up with value, as well as when price has gotten ahead
of itself and will return to value.
MARKET CONFIDENCE
In Figure 11.1, it's easy to observe that market confidence was fairly
balanced. Early in the morning (A period), the market attempted to trade
lower, and by F period the market was attempting to trade higher. The POC,
which was at the center of the range by the end of the session,
communicated that the day was relatively well balanced. In other words,
overall confidence was evenly distributed between buyers and sellers.
Looking at a single Profile doesn't communicate realistic market conditions.
However, our purpose here is to provide a “feel” for a single day. We will
continue to develop a deeper understanding, layer by layer, as we proceed.
In my opinion, “day-timeframe market confidence” is the single most
important factor for a day-timeframe trader (who starts with no position and
goes home the same way). In the above example, the overall market
confidence was evenly split between buyers and sellers. Rotation was the
order of the day, with the POC roughly centered by day's end. There was no
directional conviction and trading opportunities were limited. On a day like
this, you're looking for opportunities around the Profile's edges.
We often enter a trading session reflecting on what we think will happen,
what we want to happen, or (worse yet) what we need to happen. Learning
to read and interpret the Profile and market confidence will tell you what is
actually happening.
Survival is operating in the present tense.
A day with higher confidence will have a more elongated Profile, a POC
that migrates in the direction of the auction, decreased rotation, and
increased volume. While there are no good sources for volume, as a proxy
we use New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) volume when trading equity
indices, and futures volume when trading other contracts.
We classify a high-confidence day as a “trend day.” One of the most
frequently asked questions I get is, “How do I anticipate a trend day?”
The answer is: You don't. Rather, you read market confidence from the
opening bell, and then you monitor for continuation.
THE DANGER OF BEING OVERLY FOCUSED
ON LIMITED INFORMATION
My dad worked for the Illinois Bell telephone company for 37 years, first as
a lineman and ending his career as a foreman. The single additional
responsibility he had as a foreman was annual driver recertification.
The basic driving principle he taught me was how to remain focused on my
total surroundings as I drove. This (literally) sweeping vision has stayed
with me throughout my life. It goes like this: Looking straight ahead, your
eyes shift to the rear-view mirror, followed by a check of the right-side
mirror. Then you take in the peripheral view to the right, return to the rear-
view mirror, then check the left-side mirror, finishing the circuit with a
peripheral view to the left before returning your eyes to the road ahead.
Traders often become so fixated on a single view or price target that they
don't consider other options or possibilities, even when they're plain as day
to an objective observer. In layman's terms, we describe this as tunnel
vision.
Part of the art of trading is assimilating how all the pieces fit together. As
we will reiterate through this book, this kind of synthesis only occurs over
time, and with considerable experience.
PREPARING FOR A DAY OF TRADING
As a brief illustration, I'll share my thought process as I prepared for the
first trading day of 2024.
The most significant observation to make as you begin to trade is
determining whether the market is trending or balancing. Every trader will
have their own timeframe and perspective when it comes to this binary
assessment – keep that in mind as I describe my preparation in the
following example.
As the opening bell approached, my observation centered on discerning if
the opening would be within or outside of the previous day's range. This is
easy to determine, as electronic overnight trading occurs right up to the
opening bell; one second the market is trading electronically and the next
we're fully engaged in the day-timeframe session.
The closer the market opens toward the center of the previous day's range,
the greater the odds that the market will be rotational, exhibiting early
morning chop. Unless the market “single prints” from this range –
exhibiting a high degree of confidence – I step aside until the market settles
down. Engaging in this kind of early chop can be costly from two
perspectives: first, actual losses combined with high transaction costs; and
second, the expenditure of psychological capital.
Like financial capital, psychological capital is not unlimited.
Opening outside of the previous day's range increases the odds of an active
trading session, as the market is indicating that it's out of short-term balance
relative to the previous day. This type of situation offers two opportunities:
failure to carry through quickly with a return to the previous day's range, or
an upside/downside breakout.
When the market opens within the previous day's range, my focus
immediately shifts to the concept of developing value. I observe where the
market is exhibiting traction, manifest in the “thickening” portion of the
Market Profile as TPOs stack up, revealing the area where buyers and
sellers agree on value. My focus then remains on the dynamics of today's
Value Area relative to yesterday's Value Area.
As you gain experience, imagination becomes increasingly powerful as you
learn to visualize the most likely structural developments – will value be
unchanged, overlapping, overlapping to higher, clearly higher, overlapping
to lower, or lower?
Too many traders lack the imagination to assess the odds of developing
value. Without igniting their creative imagination, they will always be late.
Everything is a series of facts surrounded by other circumstances.
—J. Peter Steidlmayer
More than just about any other insight, this Steidlmayer comment has
driven my trading and teaching over the years. Let's attempt to enumerate a
sampling of these “other circumstances,” which will make or break you as a
day or short-term trader.
Is Volume Increasing or Decreasing Relative to the
Market's Direction?
Basic economic theory tells us that healthy advancing prices will attract
higher volume. Higher prices on declining volume indicate decreasing odds
of further advancement, and increasing odds of retracement. Likewise,
decreasing prices that don't attract higher volume show lower odds of
downside continuation, and increased odds of rebounding.
On the surface, this observation seems straightforward. But note that traders
who recognize what's going on can sometimes act too early. As a general
rule, you would ideally like to see the kind of “tail” described earlier prior
to acting, as it provides more “surrounding circumstances” to support your
trade decision.
There should be a totally different mindset between a trader exiting a trade
and one who is entering a trade. The odds favor those who are a little early
on the exit, and slightly late on the entry of a new position. These are
important concepts that relate to emotional control.
Is Market Profile Structure Healthy or Unhealthy?
The relative “health” of a Profile can only be fully understood when you
have gained sufficient experience. A healthy Profile is not too elongated,
nor is it too truncated. Overly elongated structure suggests emotionally
charged markets, and emotional decisions usually lead to poor results. A
Profile that is too truncated shows a lack of interest, or counter-auction
activity. Risk/reward in these stalled-out markets is not with you.
As you prepare for the trading day, always ask yourself what the market
appears to be attempting to do, and what grade you would give its attempt.
For example, if the trend is up and the market opens on the high and
attempts to trade lower, producing a truncated Profile, that is a positive
indicator for upward continuation, as it reveals that selling has most likely
dried up.
And of course the inverse is true – if the trend is down and the market
opens on the low but the Profile develops in a truncated fashion, buying has
probably waned.
PRIORITIZING MARKET-GENERATED
INFORMATION
One of the most ubiquitous questions during Jim Dalton Trading seminars
is, “How do you prioritize this kind of information?”
While this is a logical question, it's unanswerable. Trading is an art, not a
science. If short-term trading were a science, we wouldn't have a chance
because high-speed computers would beat us to the trade every time.
Integrating the strategies discussed above is key to the process of becoming
a trading artist; often it's the mixing and matching of individual pieces that
result in the discovery of a trade opportunity. None of the elements
discussed here are the same from day to day – thus you need an artful
approach to remain objective, flexible, and focused on the details that
matter.
It's worth reiterating, however, that the starting point for prioritizing
market-generated information (MGI) is to determine whether the market is
trending or lingering in an area of developing value.
LET THE TRADE COME TO YOU
One of the most confusing statements for many of our educational clients is
“Let the trade come to you.” Picture yourself standing at the plate awaiting
a pitch that will rocket toward you at 90 miles an hour. Timing is everything
– if you swing too early or too late, you'll end up in a pretzel punctuated by
the THUMP of the ball in the catcher's mitt.
To be a successful trader, you must develop the patience to let the trade
come to you. This statement is frequently challenged, as traders will say,
“I'm looking for a trade, that's what I do.” This statement may seem
obvious, but it's incorrect.
When you have learned to observe and interpret MGI via the Market
Profile, you'll begin to recognize when the trade has, in fact, come to you.
There will be a confluence of factors that lead you to a nuanced
understanding of what is happening in the present tense, who is in control
of the dominant market impetus, and how the structure might develop over
the remainder of the trading session.
When you go looking for a trade, you're likely to find one. Unfortunately,
it's unlikely it will be a fortuitous trade. This is a difficult concept to
internalize, and it probably won't register until the first time a trade appears
without you looking for it.
MONITOR FOR CONTINUATION
Earlier, we identified two self-destructive habits: taking profits too soon and
fading (going against) a trend day. The information that enables you to
identify trade opportunities is the same information employed to monitor
for continuation.
During this process, ask yourself in the case of a long trade:
Is value building higher?
Are higher prices bringing in more or less activity?
Is the Profile getting too elongated – a sign of emotional buying?
Is the Profile like Goldilocks – just right?
I'm often asked to share Profiles that demonstrate these (and other)
scenarios. While this is a logical request, learning to trade simply doesn't
work that way. The answers to the questions above only come from the
experience of having witnessed the real-time development of thousands of
Profiles.
Everything is a series of facts surrounded by other circumstances, and the
other circumstances matter.
Monitoring for continuation reduces the odds of transacting too early or
fading a trend day. Focus on the process for identifying trades, then monitor
for continuation instead of dwelling on profit/loss.
Write down your unique process. Commit it to memory as part of forming a
solid habit (chunk). Habits that change behavior are built one action at a
time.
FEAR OF MISSING OUT (FOMO)
FOMO is a universal human tendency; we all want to feel like we're in the
know, in the mix. While FOMO can be triggered at any time, it is most
likely associated with:
1. Sharply rising prices in bull markets
2. Sharply falling prices in bear markets
3. Unexpected news events, for example, economic releases and earnings
surprises
4. Short squeezes and liquidation events
5. Social media hype
6. Speculative front-running of economic releases
FOMO is a lot easier to write about than it is to control. But one of the keys
to becoming a successful trader is developing an understanding of when
you're susceptible to these feelings, and how they influence your trading
tendencies.
KNOW YOUR COMPETITION
It's hard to imagine a competitive player entering a racquetball or tennis
court without noting whether their partner is left- or right-handed.
Successful trading is highly dependent on assessing the competition before
entering a trade.
To be successful, you must know your competition, know yourself, and
manage risk. For the short-term trader, I would place “know your
competition” at the top of the list. This is an extremely complex
undertaking. Over 50 years of trading, failing to acknowledge this has
fueled biases that severely dented my profit potential.
The way to develop an understanding of your competition is to analyze the
monthly, weekly, and daily bar chart, in that order.
It's extremely rare for markets to go directly from bull to bear, or bear to
bull. The only exception that I recall revolved around the coronavirus that
first surfaced in December 2019, sending the market sharply lower until
March 2020, when the US strongly supported the market through fiscal and
monetary policy.
The pattern you see in the monthly bar in Figure 11.2 represents what most
often occurs – markets progress from trend to balance, then back to trend or
reverse trend. “V” formations are extremely rare.
On the monthly bar chart the market clearly marches higher for several
months. Don't fight trends. When the trend is up, for example, the odds
favor orienting your trading to the long side. Take profits on rallies and look
for opportunities to buy breaks. Don't outthink yourself.
Some of you might now be thinking, “He doesn't understand me – I'm a day
trader.”
So am I. The odds favor trading with the long-term trend.
It's not over until it's over.
—Yogi Berra
Figure 11.2 A Monthly Bar Chart
The weekly bar chart in Figure 11.3 shows a clear upward trend outlined by
black arrows. The trend continues until there's upper excess, which is
followed by a sharp, three-week liquidation break. This is a tradable short-
term trend to the downside.
Reviewing the left-hand side of the weekly bar chart, which equates to the
upper trend viewed on the monthly, you can easily see the effectiveness of
staying with the trend by buying breaks and selling rallies (taking profits on
rallies).
It looks so easy on the bar chart, yet we make it so hard as we become
certain it can't possibly go any higher. The constant advice is: Don't defeat
yourself.
Short-term auctions against the trend can be extremely enticing. They may
be short-term profit-taking events, temporary responses to news or
economic releases, rumors, etc. Remaining focused on the larger trend is
emotionally challenging, particularly following a day or days against the
trend.
Figure 11.3 A Weekly Bar Chart
That's why daily preparation is so important. It's easy to promise that you'll
consistently do the prep work, but promises don't prepare you for
competition.
Substantial money is often lost in the late stages of a rally, as traders begin
to front-run an expected break. While it's easy to suggest – and extremely
difficult to execute – astute traders should strive to be a little late rather than
a little early relative to the expected break. It's not uncommon for the earlier
shorts (in this case) to miss the meaningful break as FOMO has done them
prior to the downturn.
Unfortunately, most of us do not have an abundance of patience.
As we transition from the weekly to the daily bar chart, you should begin to
see and feel the uncertainty, as a topping process is underway.
FIRST BREAK FROM TREND
It's extremely rare for markets to go from trending one way to trending in
the reverse direction. Again, the odds greatly favor a transition from trend
to trading range.
On the left-hand side of the daily bar chart in Figure 11.4, notice the first
notable break from the upward trend. The odds are high that any initial
break of this nature will be met with buying. Additionally, the first serious
break is likely to be the start of the balancing process.
The buyers following the first notable break from an upward trend are most
often “laggards,” the weakest of market participants. Note that this “weak”
label, while accurate, can create a mental block in your mind – late-buying
laggards can often persist for longer than you imagine.
Learning and accepting this have been extremely costly for me over the
years.
Your first defense is to recognize and accept the balancing process. Your
ability to do this is directly related to your constant daily preparation. If
you're not diligent, the markets will wear you down.
When markets enter this phase, I focus on short-term trends and balance; as
a short-term trader, my minimum “balance” is revealed in two days of
overlapping value. The more extensive the balance, the higher the odds of a
more meaningful breakout.
Figure 11.4 A Daily Bar Chart
BALANCE TRADING GUIDELINES
As you are by now aware, I am vehemently against any hard and fast
“trading rules,” opting instead for a more fluid, context-driven approach to
trading. That said, here are some of my personal guidelines that you might
begin to incorporate into your own preparation and observational regimen:
1. Pass on trades that remain within a balance area, where chop is likely
to remain high and opportunity low. Remaining within a balancing
range serves to further establish and define that balance until the
market determines its next directional move.
2. Go with any breakout from balance and monitor for continuation.
3. Fade (go against) any breakout that fails. The potential then arises to
trade to the opposite extreme. As with any trade, monitoring for
continuation is paramount, and will help guard against the inevitable
surge of wishful thinking.
When volatility increases, the importance of trading with developing value
increases sharply. If you don't focus on developing value, you're at greater
risk of being constantly swayed and whipsawed by price. Trading with
developing value isn't perfect; however, it is far better than hanging onto a
flailing volatility rope.
It is not necessary to change. Survival is not mandatory.
—W. Edwards Deming, Economist and Writer
GAP TRADING GUIDELINES
As volatility increases, gaps become more common. While traditional
technical analysis measures gaps from the settle, I believe it is important to
only identify a gap when the market has opened outside the previous day's
range.
You won't be surprised to learn that I don't define gaps by a specific number
of ticks – there are small and large gaps, and as always, it is the surrounding
context that makes the difference. The distinction will become more
apparent through experience.
Here are some general guidelines I follow when it comes to gaps.
1. Go with gaps that aren't filled fairly quickly. (Frustrated that I have no
precise definition for “fairly quickly”? All part of learning the art of
trading.)
2. The best buying opportunity for an upward gap occurs on an attempt
for price to fill the gap, when downward tempo slows and volume
decreases.
3. If the gap is filled, begin to monitor for downward continuation. The
ultimate upper gap failure would see, at a minimum, unchanged value.
Downward trading gap guidelines are of course a mirror image of these
three points.
Successful gaps signal change; if the market has been balanced, a gap
signals a change in the direction of the gap. The gap then becomes support
for that shift. If the market has been trending, a gap may demonstrate
acceleration of the current auction.
Larger gaps trigger more complexity:
1. Many traders don't trade overnight. So when a market opens sharply
lower in the morning, for example, the lower opening is more likely to
be exacerbated as these traders are forced to liquidate.
2. Broker-dealers servicing brokerage accounts with long positions on
margin are likely to issue margin calls. Street wisdom says do not meet
the call with cash but rather liquidate the position. As the broker-
dealers liquidate positions, additional downward pressure is
introduced.
3. As we have mentioned, momentum trading is the most recognized
trading methodology. When a large downward gap occurs, the
momentum indices are likely to be adjusted downward, which is likely
to trigger additional selling.
4. If a large downward gap is to be filled, serious buying is usually
evident from the opening bell.
MOMENTUM VS. MGI
The goal of the savvy trader is to discover the confluence of momentum and
MGI. When there's a conflict between momentum and MGI, the odds
initially favor momentum, because momentum is comparatively easy, and
more likely to be the expected response from the trading hordes.
The expected response isn't necessarily wrong, but consider that the odds of
an expected response are diminished when that response is not backed by
objective information from the market itself. MGI, in this case, can be
similar to a delayed reaction. For example, an upward move that is initially
momentum-driven – but isn't supported by MGI (e.g. accompanied by
healthy volume) – will most likely be limited, with higher odds of
retracement.
When MGI and momentum are not in sync, the MGI reaction is often
delayed compared to quick-trigger momentum trading – the heart of
the issue for traders.
Today is January 11, 2024. On December 28, 2023, the market established a
non-excess high at 4,840. My assessment was that while the market was
continuing to rise coming into the end of 2023, traders were becoming
skeptical of the advance; however, there was a strong hesitancy to take
profits that would be taxable in 2023.
The first four trading days of 2024 saw the market trade sharply lower. I
suspect the nervous longs that held out through 2023 immediately began
taking profits on January 2, the first trading day of 2024. (Taxes were
successfully moved to 2024.)
It's important to reflect on my assumption, which is that the selling that
began on January 2 and ran through January 5 was primarily liquidation.
This assumption is based on the lack of any meaningful downside follow-
through (Figure 11.5).
Figure 11.5 Trading from December 28, 2023, to January 5, 2024
From January 8-10, the market rallied as momentum re-emerged (Figure
11.8). During this rally, many of the underlying references were weak,
resting on exact reference points. When markets stop and start at precise
reference points, it's often an indication that my competition is the very
shortest timeframes.
Samples of some of these exacting references are previous highs, previous
lows, overnight highs and lows, and halfback from overnight and the
previous session. (This list is not all-inclusive, but provides tangible
comfort for the discussion.)
As a trader, I felt the emotional struggles as the market continued to
advance higher on these days. A casual look would be unlikely to identify
the conflict, as “trend” and “value” were both advancing. The psychological
battle taking place beneath the surface was that MGI was clashing with
momentum; the Profile's thinness, reading from low to high, along with the
four multiple distributions on the 8th (Figure 11.6), suggested that the
selling from the first four trading days of 2024 had gotten short-term
inventory too short.
This supports my earlier statement that the selling activity that began the
first three trading days of the year was mostly liquidation. Here are two
utterances attendees continually hear during my educational webinars: First,
what happened before has a lot to do with what happens going forward; and
second, short-term trading often revolves around inventory getting too long
or too short.
Notice in Figure 11.7 that the Profile structure on the 9th resembles the
letter “p,” which indicates more short covering.
When inventory is too short, it can strengthen the market, but a short-
covering rally that eliminates short inventory can weaken the market.
Traders can sometimes get lost in the delay between the rally following a
market that is too short and the break that follows a short-covering rally.

Figure 11.6 Multiple Distributions on January 8, 2024

Figure 11.7 “p”-Shaped Profile on January 9, 2024
WEAK HIGHS AND LOWS
Weak highs and lows occur when the daily high is at one tick above, or one
tick below the previous day's high or low. This is another indication that the
current rally or break is not complete, which increases the odds of
continuation.
Notice that the high on the 9th in Figure 11.8 fits this description.
Nuance matters. Weak highs and lows are constant nuances that adjust
short-term odds for continuation. For example, a weak high followed by a
sell-off has higher odds of not lasting. If not corrected today, carry that
information forward.
To acquire knowledge, one must study; but to acquire wisdom, one must
observe.
—Marilyn vos Savant
Following through on this scenario, we quickly saw that the weak high on
the 9th was traded through to the upside on the 10th. This multiple-day rally
appeared to be mostly short covering.
Supporting the statement “short-covering rallies can weaken the market,”
the 11th delivered a sharp retracement of previous days. Again, what has
happened before greatly influences the outcome of what happens going
forward.
Successful trading requires an organized mind that is capable of constantly
reflecting on conflicting pieces of information. In most cases, the successful
trader is capable of constantly thinking in terms of probabilities.
For example, the weak high on the 9th presented a probability that the
market was going higher. At the same time, the short covering from the
previous sessions increased the probability that the market would break.

Figure 11.8 The Weak High on January 9, 2024
Hopefully this example helps you better appreciate the complexity, time,
and life-long focus it takes to be a successful trader.
Take a moment to answer these questions:
1. Can you begin to feel the significance of MGI?
2. Can you feel the interplay between MGI and momentum?
3. What would you expect when both MGI and momentum are in sync?
4. What would you expect when they are working against each other?
OceanofPDF.com
CHAPTER TWELVE
TIMEFRAMES AND THE AUCTION PROCESS
Auctions enable price discovery, liquidity, and transparency. They create a
competitive environment where buyers and sellers can seek fair prices – but
“competitive environment” means different things, depending on your
timeframe.
You can't fully appreciate the market's continuous, two-way auction process
without first developing an understanding of the auction's participants.
The day-trader timeframe is minutes to hours, while the short-term trader
operates over days and weeks. While all timeframes become day traders
when they enter/exit the market, your sense of urgency depends on the
duration of your focus.
Earlier, we described the “silent auction” you encounter at the grocery store,
where you have a comfortable amount of time to make a decision. As a
result, your emotional level is generally calm and controlled. Contrast this
feeling with the amount of time you have to make a decision in the market's
continuous, competitive auction.
The day trader is more likely to be impacted by such time limitations.
During periods of high volatility, rapid changes in price can be
extraordinarily challenging for day traders, who must be vigilant to avoid
being swayed by extreme emotions.
I recall many moments in my trading past when I would peer down at my
afternoon statement and wonder what the hell I just did.
Most day and short-term traders suffering unsatisfactory results are guilty of
overtrading. In the digital age, entering and exiting positions are effortless,
which makes overtrading – triggered by impulsive decisions fueled by
emotions – much more common. Review your transaction costs under these
circumstances. The commissions are visible, the loss of the spread between
the bid and offer going in and the bid and offer going out are not as
obvious. But they are real.
Continuous auctions facilitated the rise of algorithmic trading, which can
quickly roll over day traders, especially following news releases, market
breakouts, and events that result in a race to action. The machines are faster
and more consistent.
On the other side of day traders moving in volatile herds are institutional
investors and high-frequency traders benefitting from information
asymmetry, obtaining and reacting to information quicker than short-term
traders.
Day traders suffer the highest stress levels, for they must constantly monitor
market conditions in order to make rapid trading decisions under pressure.
FACTORS AFFECTING PRICE
Sometimes price advances or declines are simply related to the competitive
nature of other market participants. Fear of missing out (FOMO) is often
behind these actions. As we quoted earlier, “Nothing draws a crowd quite
like a crowd.”
Sometimes psychology drives the auction process. Other times the market is
feeling around a reference level, which can generate activity like “gunning
for stops.” It's not difficult to determine where a significant stop might be
waiting – it could be a multi-day high or low, a trend line, a monthly high or
low, weekly high or low, yearly high, etc.
For this example, let's assume the stops are above the current market at a
monthly high. Experienced short-term traders intuitively know there will be
activity there. These traders will bid (buy) the market in an attempt to
trigger the stops. If they're successful – which turns the stops into buy
orders – there's likely to be a quick rise. The short-term traders immediately
sell into the market in advance to take their profit.
This is where you can continue to develop your intuition around market
nuance: If the higher prices obtained by taking out stops fails to bring in
new buying, the market is likely to retrace the move. As a day or short-term
trader, if you didn't realize what was occurring, you could've gotten trapped
on the wrong side of the market.
If trading above the reference level instead attracted new buyers, the
advance would likely continue. Too often traders are afraid to miss a move
and act too quickly.
Your best defense is awareness.
The odds of becoming a successful trader improve when you consider price
action within the larger context of the market's continuous auction process,
as well as the motivations of the other market participants. Know your
enemy.
In every discipline, the ability to be clearheaded, present, cool under fire
is much of what separates the best from the mediocre. In competition,
the dynamic is often painfully transparent. If one player is serenely
present while the other is being ripped apart by internal issues, the
outcome is already clear.
—Josh Waitzkin, The Art of Learning
YOUR OPPONENTS' MOTIVATION
So far we've segmented market participants based on the timing of their
actions, discussing general categories like Malcolm Gladwell's scale of
laggards to innovators. Now let's look more closely at a broader range of
participants, including commodity trading advisors (CTAs), private offices,
hedge funds, large private traders, and investment managers (systematic
traders will be included in this category, but systematic trading could come
from any of these participants).
I'm writing this section on January 23, 2024. Last Friday, January 19th, the
S&P E-mini rallied through both the 2023 and 2024 highs in spectacular
fashion.
Let's discuss dynamics leading up to major references and potential
breakout levels.
PRICE RISK AND LOCATION RISK
Many traders think of risk only in terms of price. This approach doesn't go
far enough. Risk is also associated with key locations, such as a moving
average, yearly high or low, anchored volume-weighted average price
(VWAP), major trading range top/bottom, and so on. I'll be using an
established trading range for the following discussion.
As a market approaches a major reference point, such as this yearly/bracket
high, experienced traders recognize that it's a high-risk area – if the market
fails to trade above the bracket. They may decide that the risk/reward is
unattractive and exits before the market attempts to trade through the
reference. If the trading-range high is exceeded, they will then re-enter their
long position, believing the risk has been reduced.
Market breakouts such as we experienced in the E-mini S&P 500 futures
contract (ES) last Friday, January 19, will often result in new orders above
the reference/bracket high. When you look at the bar chart in Figure 12.1,
this is very evident.
Figure 12.1 Daily Bar Chart from August 2023 to January 2024,
Showing the 2023 High
But remember context – traders can be duped when volume slows as the
reference point approaches. What can mislead you is that while the buying
volume is light, which normally suggests the rally is failing, selling volume
has also diminished, and without sellers the reference is much more
vulnerable.
EXCESS
The two most important concepts I address in our educational seminars are
excess and balance (covered later). “Excess” marks the end of one auction
and the beginning of another. Excess is multi-timeframe. Most of the time
our focus is on day-timeframe excess, which is expressed through either a
buying or selling tail.
The graphic in Figure 12.2 shows a lack of excess for 2023. The
significance of that became evident on January 19 when the market broke to
new highs.
While this may seem obvious looking at a retroactive graphic, 14 days of
trading took place prior to the market taking out the incomplete high.
There's no rule that says the high must be taken out, but odds are good the
market will eventually trade back through that level of apparent
ambivalence.
The challenge for short-term traders is to keep track of this non-excess high
while continuing to conduct their daily trading (“carrying information
forward”). Thinking about it too much will make it difficult to complete
your typical short-term trades. But if you forget about it, you might get
caught off guard and end up quickly underwater.
This example is simple, as you're only tasked with carrying forward one
piece of information. It's far more challenging when there are three or four
(or a dozen) salient pieces of information to monitor and manage. That's
where focused experience can lead to chunking, which reduces the amount
of brainpower you must exert.
Figure 12.2 Lack of Excess in December 2023
Most people would be surprised to discover that if you compare the
thought process of a Grandmaster to that of an expert (a much weaker,
but quite competent chess player), you will often find that the
Grandmaster consciously looks at less, not more. That said, the chunks
of information that have been put together in his mind allow him to see
much more with much less conscious thought. So he is looking at very
little and seeing quite a lot. This is the critical idea.
—Josh Waitzkin, The Art of Learning
CATALYST
What I'm about to share may sound oversimplified. In fact, when my trader
friend first said it, I laughed it off: “Traders do what works until it doesn't
work anymore.”
Reflect on how this philosophy might have contributed to the non-excess
plateau that lasted for 14 days. From the December 2023 high until January
19, 2024, the market went nowhere. It appeared to be all short-term traders
buying and selling within the confines of the established references, which
contained the market for some time.
When markets get confined to relatively narrow trading ranges, it's not
unusual for some kind of catalyst to trigger a breakout. The catalyst that
took the market higher on January 19 was triggered by strong tech stock
buy recommendations, further fueled by an overabundance of call positions
that were due to expire and being hedged by dealers. Generally speaking,
customers are long calls while dealers are short. If this is a correct
assessment, dealers would have been forced to buy futures as the market
rallied in order to maintain their hedges.
This isn't meant to introduce you to hedging, but rather to alert you to the
fact that there are always many things going on beneath the surface –
factors we don't know about until after the fact.
As you gain experience reading market-generated information, you will
learn to read the signs that suggest these kinds of forcing actions are taking
place. The lack of excess at the December 19 high was the first such sign.
OceanofPDF.com
CHAPTER THIRTEEN
TAKE A MINUTE TO BREATHE
You have made it this far – congratulations! Before we proceed, let's pause
and seek a moment of calm… both to give your brain a break from
processing complex information, and to make a vital point about how your
mental state can influence your trading practice.
Breathing is a unique physical activity in that it obviously goes on
throughout our lives without us having to think about it. But breathing can
also be influenced by our immediate attention. Case in point: Join me in this
simple exercise:
Breathe in through your nose as deeply as you can, filling your belly
fully, then breathe in even a little more to the point that your lungs feel
completely filled. Now release all that air through your mouth in a giant
sigh until your lungs are completely empty.
Pause, and do that two more times.
I'll wait…
Known as the “physiological sigh,” this basic breathing exercise has many
benefits:
Stress reduction: Deep breathing activates the body's natural
relaxation response by stimulating the parasympathetic nervous
system, counteracting the “fight or flight” response and decreasing
stress hormones (like cortisol) that trigger negative emotions,
hindering your ability to remain calm and objective.
Oxygenation: Deep breaths bring more oxygen into your bloodstream,
promoting clearer thinking and reducing tension and anxiety in your
body.
Muscle relaxation: When stressed about a trade, you're most likely
unconsciously tensing certain muscle groups. Deep breathing can help
relax your muscles, reducing physical discomfort and promoting a
sense of calm.
Focus and mindfulness: Deep breaths also serve as a “mindfulness”
technique, diverting attention from racing thoughts and illusory
worries – the busy brain obsessing over negative outcomes that have
little to no bearing on reality. Being mindful allows you to be more
attuned to the present moment, where decisions happen.
Emotional regulation: Deep breathing also helps regulate emotions,
providing a welcome pause in a stressful or emotionally charged
situation. Once you release unnecessary emotional energy, you have a
better opportunity to collect your thoughts and respond to even taxing
situations more clearly and calmly.
Reduced heart rate: Deep breathing slows your heart rate. During
periods of stress or anxiety – like when placing a trade – the heart
tends to race, depriving you of the ability to stay serene and rational. A
slower heart rate contributes to relaxation, which enables heightened
awareness and better brain function.
Increased self-awareness: Practicing deep breathing can help you
become more attuned to your body's responses to stress, increasing
self-awareness and improving your ability to manage stress effectively.
You know intuitively that anxiety causes shallow breathing patterns that
deprive your brain of optimal fuel for processing new stimuli – you've felt it
when you're about to pull the trigger on a trade when your heart races, you
experience tunnel vision, and you fall back into unproductive habits and
preconceived notions.
The deep inhalation and prolonged exhalation signal the body to shift from
arousal to a more relaxed state of heightened awareness of the present
moment – the only place we have any influence over ourselves and the
world.
In every discipline, the ability to be clearheaded, present, cool under fire
is much of what separates the best from the mediocre.
—Josh Waitzkin, The Art of Learning
OceanofPDF.com
CHAPTER FOURTEEN
TREND DAYS
I estimate that roughly 15% of days present some type of trend, with the
other 85% being rotational. Here you might again be tempted to ask, “How
do I know if it will be a trend day?”
You don't.
There are, however, nuanced clues provided by the market that can give you
an indication of how likely a trend might be in play. The number-one clue is
high confidence from the opening.
There are many forms of trend days, but let's begin with the type that is
most likely behind the question above – the ultimate trend day that auctions
unidirectionally from the opening. In the case of the day featured in the
graphic in Figure 14.1, the market one-timeframed higher from the opening.
Keep in mind that this is an unlikely example, in that the market never
demonstrated rotational trade, which can only take place if there is a
cessation of one-timeframing. One-timeframing is only considered “over”
when, in an upward trend, the market trades below the previous (30-minute)
bar by two ticks. I have found that using shorter bars does not sufficiently
provide the best market picture.

Figure 14.1 Trend Day
On the surface, this looks like an easy day to trade. However, many short-
term traders – unless they get long early – continually ask the question,
“Where do I get long?”
The answer is to get on the train and monitor for continuation.
Many traders, even if they get with the trend, exit too early. Additionally,
they then fade the trend, enticed by higher prices in an upward trend and
lower prices in a downward trend. Traders employing strategies that wait
for confirmation are likely left at the starting blocks.
Some general rules of thumb, which of course must be considered within
the larger context of surrounding activity, are:
Don't fade a one-timeframing market.
Don't anticipate a reversal.
This is the perfect setup for the revenge trade, which happens when
you miss a trend. After watching price go higher, you fade (go against)
the move. You're psychologically attempting to prove the market
wrong and you're right. This usually doubles your misery – you missed
the trade, then you got stopped out going against the trend. In fact, this
continual action by short-term traders provides additional fuel to force
the market even higher.
I don't think I've ever conducted an educational webinar or seminar in
which I didn't state that the biggest error short-term traders make is fading
trend days. In upward trend days, inexperienced traders continually dream
about selling the high.
This phenomenon can be even greater on downward trend days with
continual attempts to buy the low. This thought was placed in my mind in
the early 1970s by the manager of a retail trade desk. He actually
announced, “The trade I just entered will be the talk of tonight's happy
hour!” Which it would have been… if it had worked.
To be a profitable short-term trader, you need to capitalize on the big days.
Reflect on the significance of what was just discussed, and your own
tendency to respond emotionally to the feeling of missing a big move.
So much of what I've learned about trend days began with error. There is
very little learning without error.
In my early trading years, as the market started to sell off late in the
afternoon following an upward trend day, I would immediately sell into the
break. A typical sale would occur as L period traded below K period (Figure
14.2), suggesting the cessation of one-timeframing. I suffered from an over-
eagerness, as I had watched price rise all day. Disappointment would
quickly set in as the market aggressively resumed its rally.
It's embarrassing to admit that it took years for me to realize the real market
dynamics in play. The L period break was simply the market adjusting
short-term inventory prior to its final run into the close. As you observe this
formation, notice that the L period was the single period that the market
stopped one-timeframing.
In the next example (Figure 14.3), we'll observe slightly different dynamics,
when the cessation of one-timeframing occurs earlier in the trading session.
Observe the slightly different dynamics here. One-timeframing ceased
briefly in D period. It's easy to forget this as the market continued higher for
the next 2½ hours. The early cessation was a small clue that this market
lacked the confidence of the prior example.
Second, notice that J period – two periods earlier than in the previous
example – ceased one-timeframing again. It's another nuance that
demonstrates reduced market strength.
The first example (Figure 14.2) produced higher odds of upward
continuation than this day. In other words, the second example (Figure
14.3) produced higher odds of potential liquidation.
Trading is about change. Change offers opportunity.
Another observation I've made over the years focuses on the afternoon
pullback low in an upward-trend day, and the afternoon rally high in a
downward-trend day. If on the day following an upward-trend day price
does not trade down below the afternoon pullback low, the odds of change
are relatively low. Trading below the afternoon pullback low, combined
with acceptance, increases the odds of change occurring. Once again, it is
the mirror image relative to a downward-trend day.

Figure 14.2 First Cessation of One-Timeframing

Figure 14.3 Second Cessation of One-Timeframing
In an attempted trend day, pay close attention to one-timeframing,
developing value, and volume in order to assess the strength or weakness of
the attempted move.
NO POC ON TREND DAYS
The most frequently forgotten feature of a trend day is that you do not
consider the point of control (POC) – or fairest price at which business is
being conducted – while the market is one-timeframing. The nature of a
trend day is the search for value, and of course the POC is the pivotal price
for defining “value.”
A failed trend day is the result of a day that initially began to trend, but then
reverted to rotation. Once this occurs, the POC is again relevant. The failed
trend day is now traded as you would trade any rotational day.
MARKETS ARE NOT ALWAYS ORDERLY
Sudden shifts in market sentiment, news events, and breaching key levels
can all rapidly change markets. One-timeframing (trending) markets can
suddenly revert to rotational activity, and rotational markets can just as
rapidly transition to trending.
Relate this notion to our earlier discussion about how rising or declining
prices can be the cause of further rises or declines. It's not uncommon for a
rotational market to pierce an important price level, which sets off
additional buying/selling that results in a “double distribution trend day.”
On the day shown in Figure 14.4, the market was rotational until buyers
overwhelmed the lower distribution, spiking higher in H period. The
separation between the two distributions (single prints) becomes short-term
support. Once the double distribution is formed, treat each distribution as a
separate day or auction.
Figure 14.4 Profile of a Double Distribution Trend Day
The POC is tricky in this example, as it relates only to the upper
distribution. It will be the longest line closest to the center of the range of
the upper distribution.
Double distributions are normally the weakest of trend days. Only the final
distribution is inspected to determine whether it is rotational or one-
timeframing.
No matter what kind of trend day it is, it's still measured relative to the most
recent value area. For example, notice if the trend day is higher relative to
the previous day, unchanged, lower, etc. – it takes an artful interpretation.
Chunking is front and center again as you assess the overall effects of the
trend day. Unless the day represents a clear upside or downside breakout,
then the larger auction must be evaluated relative to all the inter-related
pieces.
If I have any doubt about what the trend day represents, I go back and
review the monthly, weekly, and daily bars. This allows me to view the
trend day within a broader perspective. Context is king.
In Chapter 16, we'll spend time identifying and defining references and how
they come about. Once we have a working grasp of references, we'll tackle
rotational days, which make up approximately 85% of trading sessions.
MENTAL FLEXIBILITY AND TEMPO
Mental agility allows you to adjust to constantly changing market
conditions, remaining objective and focused on the flow of market-
generated information.
The example in Figure 14.5 presents you with what appears to be a trend
day, but we will introduce “tempo,” which signals that what happened
earlier was simply a liquidation break – not a more potent combination of
liquidation and new money selling. In other words, the new money selling
was absent, which is a vital clue.
The constant refrain – everything is a series of facts surrounded by other
circumstances – is again applicable.
The A period high is slightly below the high for the year. When the market
starts to break in A period, you don't know if you're looking at
predominantly serious new money selling, short-term liquidation, or a more
serious combination of liquidation and new money selling.
Following the C period low, the market balances for the next two hours.
The market-generated information provided a feeling of “tempo.” As in
music, tempo can be fast or slow. In this case, tempo was sluggish. The
frustration/challenge for many traders is that tempo can't be taught; it must
be learned through experience. In this example, another way to view the
dynamics of tempo is that offers were dwindling while bids were getting
slightly more aggressive.
Traders that didn't understand tempo spent the next couple of hours selling
every rally. Learning to appreciate tempo is a major factor in outperforming
the herd.
Tempo is most powerful when it's married to patience.
One of the constant challenges we face as short-term traders is assessing if
aggressive buying or selling is the result of liquidation, in the case of a
market that was too long; short covering following a market move that
resulted in the market getting too short; or “new money” buying or selling.
Unless there is a panicked situation, serious new money selling is generally
slower and more consistent. Serious new money sellers are holding many
other securities, and it's not in their best interests to destroy the market.
They will generally sell or buy in a controlled manner over a longer period
– successful institutional participants will barely be noticeable. If they're
impacting the market, they prefer it to be slow, gradual, and imperceptible.
When prices are accelerating rapidly in either direction, the odds are higher
that the move is related to short covering or long liquidation. Simply reflect
on how you feel and act if you get caught long or short.

Figure 14.5 Liquidation Break and Tempo
In the example in Figure 14.6, the market opened sharply lower following
an extremely aggressive upward auction during the previous session.
Overnight news had driven the market sharply lower by the opening. Here,
the “facts surrounded by other circumstances” are that the trend is up and
within striking distance of the yearly high.
Two short-term observations are in order. First, all auctions are pointing
higher with the market within reach of the all-time high. Negative events
and news announcements that are counter to the trend are most often
retraced. Second, overnight inventory was short, and from the single A
period prints, we know that overnight inventory was being rapidly
corrected. About 75% of the time we will experience a counter-auction
relative to overnight inventory.
NOTE: The earlier a potential trend day ceases one-timeframing, the greater
the odds that the market will become rotational. As you know by now, there
are no absolute definitions, but in the current example one-timeframing
ceased in H period, which would be considered early. As we have observed
so often, the market then became rotational.
Internalizing these observations will help keep your emotions in check
during volatile trading sessions, which can make the difference between
being whipsawed and experiencing a successful trading session.

Figure 14.6 Early Cessation of One-Timeframing
THE BUSINESS ASPECTS OF TRADING
Trading is a business: You acquire inventory, dispose of inventory, have a
P&L, and are constantly operating within a two-sided market. Can you
imagine having a small retail store with great inventory and no buyers?
This would not be a successful business.
The stock and futures markets are constantly searching for the area where
two-sided trade can take place. When the market is one-timeframing, that
search continues; when two-sided trade begins to occur, the search is over.
This is the process that is occurring on a trend day.
GAPS AND SPIKES
Our definition of a “gap” does not conform to the typical technical
definition, which measures from the settlement of the previous day to the
opening of the following day. Our definition is much more dynamic: A gap
only occurs if the market opens above or below – and remains above or
below – the previous day's high or low. This definition is much more likely
to signal significant change.
Our definition of a “spike” is a late price movement, either up or down, that
occurs too late to determine if it was accepted or rejected (Figure 14.7). We
employ these spike guidelines to help us manage this phenomenon.
In an upward spike:
The base of the spike is support.
Opening and remaining above the spike during the following session
are positive, as this demonstrates that price had not advanced high
enough to cut off buying or attract sellers.

Figure 14.7 Example of a Spike
Opening and remaining below the base of the spike during the
following session are negative, as this demonstrates that price had
gone high enough to not only cut off buying, but to aggressively attract
sellers.
Opening and remaining within the spike are positive, as this
demonstrates acceptance of the price advance.
A downward spike would be the mirror image.
Price is an advertising mechanism. We never know until after the fact the
effect of this advertisement. It's important for traders to keep an open mind
when reflecting on price.
A manufacturer offers $10,000 off its truck's list price, which has gone
too high to continue to attract sufficient buyers.
During the pandemic, these same trucks were selling for thousands
above list price – demand was high. Often, higher prices stimulate
even more demand as clients believe the price rise is just beginning. In
this case, the higher price was the cause of even higher prices.
One client who owns a series of convenience stores with gas pumps
told me that as price began to drop, he kept his gas tanks low and filled
up often as he expected prices to continue to drop.
The reason for the discussion above is to expand your thinking about the
way prices affect the market. In an upward trend day, the average day-
timeframe trader has trouble resisting the urge to short the market. In a
declining trend day, this same trader must fight the urge to go long.
A flexible mind will realize that sometimes the market sees the expected
response, with higher prices attracting sellers. At other times, experienced
traders will realize that higher prices are in fact causing even higher prices.
In other words, the higher price becomes the cause for even higher prices.
Higher prices may lead to surpassing an anchor, such as the 200-day
moving average, which in turn triggers more buyers. Additionally, higher
prices could lead to even higher prices as shorts are squeezed and forced to
buy to cover. As prices move higher, momentum indices are adjusted
upward, which can trigger even more buying. You can easily imagine how
this would also work relative to a downward trend.
Challenge your automatic responses unless they're well-honed. With an
open mind, you increase the odds of determining if higher prices should be
sold or bought. Too many of us automatically want to sell higher prices and
buy lower prices.
I'm reminded of the parable of the blind men touching an elephant in
different places. What each person feels shapes their perception: “A
snake?”, “A tree trunk?”, “A wall?” This emphasizes the subjective nature
of experience, and how our interpretations are influenced by individual
biases and sensory input.
Mistakes are our greatest teachers.
—Maurice Ashley, Chess Grandmaster
OceanofPDF.com
CHAPTER FIFTEEN
EMOTIONS IN MOTION
Almost all of my critical trading mistakes have been related to the impact of
emotions.
Emotions greatly influence the way we make decisions. I've taught trading
for decades with constant references to this fact, but until this book I have
remained on the surface, when a deeper dive was required. I have selected
the discussion around trend days to attempt this “deeper dive,” as I believe
trend days present the kind of constant make-or-break opportunities that
make it nearly impossible to trade from a calm, rational, clear-eyed point of
view.
Emotions are complex psychological and physiological responses to stimuli
that involve the activation of multiple regions of the brain. The following
discussion is meant to provide a general understanding of these regions and
what role they play in shaping your behavior.
1. The amygdala is often referred to as the emotional center of the brain,
particularly related to fear and threat-related emotions. How often do
we hesitate because of a fear of loss, giving back profits, or simply
being wrong?
2. The prefrontal cortex helps with decision-making, impulse control,
and understanding the contextual aspects of our emotions. The vast
majority of short-term traders fail, so to be successful, we must run
counter to the herd.
3. The insula is involved in many areas of emotional functioning, as well
as self-awareness and the subjective experience of emotions, such as
disgust and pain. When we are wrong, we can become overly critical of
ourselves or simply freeze; the disgust and pain magnify.
4. The hippocampus is essential in forming and storing memories. It
contributes to the emotional response by providing contextual
information and linking past experiences to current emotions. Many of
my emotional/financial scars relate to decisions I made as a beginning
trader. After a friend witnessed a particularly damaging decision, he
commented, “I'm surprised you didn't bleed to death.”
5. The anterior mid-cingulate cortex is implicated in emotion,
particularly related to emotional conflict and decision-making, because
it's involved in linking reward and punishment information which
elicit emotional responses. It may sound obvious or pedantic, but this
plays a major part in most of our conflicts.
6. The hypothalamus is involved in regulating the autonomic nervous
system, which controls physiological responses such as heart rate,
breathing, and the release of stress hormones. Chapter 13 on breathing
provides a method that can have an immediate impact on this response
to stress.
7. The basal ganglia is responsible for handling complex processes that
affect your entire body, such as motor learning, habit formation,
motivation, and emotional processing. As we continue to emphasize,
you must first unlearn bad habits before you can form more productive
patterns (chunks) of behavior.
There's a lot we know about the brain, but much more we've yet to discover.
While you could spend a lifetime studying the brain, we know that
awareness is a good place to start, in terms of learning to better understand
how emotions affect your decision-making process. This kind of
exploration can provide a road to recovery for those of us who are
constantly torn between emotions and sound market observations.
Chapter 13 on breathing was intended to provide a simple method for
calming your autonomic nervous system, which is always the first step in
achieving a balanced, unconflicted mindset from which to trade.
EMOTIONAL AWARENESS
I've known many traders who are honest with everyone but themselves.
Consider the fact that there might be a difference between who we want to
be and who we are. Identifying your unique emotional awareness is a
different process for everyone. This short list of practices will hopefully
spark some ideas for developing your ability to retain a calm mindset when
things get chaotic in the market.
1. Meditate. Meditation is a profound, challenging practice for
developing a more comprehensive awareness of how your thoughts
and emotions arise and disappear – and what we can control and what
we cannot. While I've personally not found a meditation practice that
works for my mind, I walk every day and either listen to books and
podcasts, or simply perceive the passing sights and sounds as I quietly
reflect on the day, my actions, and where I can improve. This activity
gives my subconscious time to process and synthesize valuable
insights.
2. Journal. Journaling helps develop a stronger awareness of how your
thoughts and emotions are influenced by your daily life. What you're
searching for are behavioral patterns that trigger non-productive
behaviors. (More on this in Chapter 28 at the end of the book.)
3. Read. I'm a voracious reader of books and articles on the brain, the
power of our subconscious mind, emotional intelligence, and self-
awareness. The insights from the leading edge of the scientific
community are fascinating and often revealing. In Appendix B, I
recommend a range of books that have changed the way I perceive
myself and the world.
4. Practice self-compassion. We all make mistakes. Recognize the
difference between acknowledgment and self-criticism. Remember
that the stories you tell – even if they're only to yourself in the private
sanctity of your mind – have a strong influence on reality. Kindness
goes a long way, both inside and out.
It should be noted that any one of these recommendations can be a lifelong
pursuit, and as we have often stated: Practice is the only path to success.
Developing a more nuanced awareness of your emotions, what triggers
them, and how to cope with their inevitable influence on your nervous
system is an ongoing process that requires patience, commitment, and your
full attention.
Knowing yourself is the beginning of all wisdom.
—Aristotle
OceanofPDF.com
CHAPTER SIXTEEN
ANCHORS, REFERENCES, AND
SUBCONSCIOUS BIAS
Daniel Kahneman, awarded the 2002 Nobel Prize for his work in behavioral
economics, provides the foundation for the following discussion of
references and anchors. Kahneman and his collaborator Amos Tversky are
known for their work on “the anchoring effect,” a cognitive bias in which
people select a random reference point – then behave as if it's real and
permanent.
The key is to realize when you're doing it, let it go, then get back to the
market-generated information (MGI).
An anchor is any piece of information – no matter how arbitrary or
irrelevant – that can unduly influence our judgment. These types of
references can lead to biased trading decisions, cognitive dissonance, and
emotional turmoil.
Here's a simple example: A retail item is marked $99.97 instead of an even
$100.
You might think, “Who are they trying to fool?” But consider what goes on
in your brain when you see a number that is clearly “smaller” than $100;
we're not always aware of what our subconscious is doing, and as a result,
we get swayed without realizing it.
The price tag $99.97 subtly feels better than $100.
Ancient brain circuitry releases reward chemicals that change our minds.
Literally.
There is a danger known as “oversimplification bias,” which relates to the
kinds of references traders cling to. When we are solely focused on a
reference point, it can distract us from perceiving the complexity of
surrounding (and shifting) context – facts surrounded by other
circumstances.
References can provide insight into who's in control of market behavior.
But don't hang your hat on them.
RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT
Being a successful short-term trader means you've entered into an intimate
relationship with the market. This can easily go astray. Relationship
counselors are accustomed to hearing, “My partner doesn't listen,” and
“They just don't understand me.”
Learning to listen to market references – while simultaneously considering
those references within the context of unfolding market structure – will
enhance your long-term relationship with the market.
THE RELEVANCE OF REFERENCES
We divide references into two categories: static references that will not
change, and dynamic references that can continually evolve within the
auction process.
Static References
The previous day's settlement is probably the most referenced – and the
most emotionally charged – static reference. Simply observe market action
when it is at or near the settle. Feel the search going on. Witness the way
market participants are reacting to the reference: Is there confidence or
uncertainty?
Another common reference is last trade, especially when it's significantly
different than the settle. Both the settle and last trade are established by
exchanges, and both indicators are watched closely by day-timeframe
traders.
Next in order will usually be the previous day's high and low and half-
back; any meaningful change will occur relative to these levels.
We have previously discussed rally highs and pullback lows on trend
days, gap highs and lows, as well as references associated with balance
and spikes. All can provide meaningful insights into who is in control of
current market activity, and how likely it is that the activity will continue,
revert, or remain uncertain and dormant for a while.
Other references include the overnight high, low, and half-back. And of
course the previous weekly, monthly, and yearly highs are always
relevant.
Our intention isn't to mechanically name static references, but rather to
wake up your imagination to market-generated factors that provide nuanced
clues to help you choose trade locations.
During our public webinars and educational seminars, we get constant
inquiries related to “new money” buying or selling. There's never a perfect
answer to these questions. However, the more the market is influenced by
these exacting references, the less likely it is that meaningful new money is
entering or exiting the market.
This is one of the most important concepts for day-timeframe traders to
grasp and ponder. Day-timeframe dynamics are substantially different when
the market is constrained by static references – versus days the market
trades as if they don't exist.
The odds are much greater that something significant is occurring when
there is only minimal hesitation at these references.
Dynamic References
Dynamic references change in relationship to market activity. For example,
during an upward-trend day, the high will constantly change. Additionally,
you may experience new weekly, monthly, quarterly highs, etc.
During days that are more rotational in nature, the evolving Point of Control
(POC) can be very informational. As a refresher, the POC is the fairest price
at which business is being conducted. During a session in which value is
developing higher, for example, a POC that constantly migrates higher
indicates a healthy advance and increases the odds of continuation. A less
robust POC indicates less upward enthusiasm – which doesn't necessarily
mean there will be a reversal or retrenchment, but the odds of giveback are
higher.
Does monitoring for continuation come to mind?
DAY-TIMEFRAME TRADING AND
REFERENCES
The graphic in Figure 16.1 was captured prior to the opening on Monday,
February 5, 2024. It reveals the behavior of overnight traders, who are
generally the weakest of short-term traders.
The overnight high is within two ticks of Friday's settle, with the overnight
low at Friday’s half-back. The market communicates, but if you're lost in
focus bias you may miss this important bit of information.
Relationship counseling may be in order: “He just doesn't listen.”
Being inside Friday's range with an almost exacting high and low tells me
the market is neutral relative to Friday; no longer-term money has yet
shown interest. Additionally, the market is likely to open within Friday's
range – another indication that there is no obvious change in prevailing
conditions.
Too often traders become emotionally charged waiting for the opening. In
that overcharged state, the odds are high that your decisions will not be
objective.
For example, I was once chatting with a long-term client before the market's
opening. He commented that I was sitting back, taking “a landscape view”
of the market as we waited.
I asked, “What do you do?”
He replied, “I'm hunched up close to the screen to observe the opening.”
Having put this thought in my mind, I began to observe other traders as the
opening approached – my friend was closer to the norm: too emotionally
involved, which puts you on the wrong foot to start the day.
This anecdote is meant to demonstrate the way these types of references can
assist you and guide your day-timeframe trading.
If you're able to listen…

Figure 16.1 Overnight Trade, Before Opening, Monday, February 5,
2024
OceanofPDF.com
CHAPTER SEVENTEEN
PRIORITIZING REFERENCES
I'm constantly asked to prioritize references. This request appears to be
simple and logical, but it's actually nuanced and complex. My first
employment of references is to determine who is controlling the majority of
day-timeframe trading. When the market is constantly being contained by
easily identifiable references, the odds are high that trading on that day is
mostly being conducted by short-term, day-timeframe traders.
Easily identifiable references would include the previous day's high or low,
the settle, half-back from the previous day, overnight high/low, etc.
When the market plows right through easily identifiable references, it's an
indication that one of the below is occurring:
Longer timeframes are active
Short covering
Long liquidation
Combination of all three
When my mind is open and free of bias, these types of observations greatly
influence my trading. The market no longer has occasion to complain, “He
never listens.”
Pay close attention to this nuance: When the market is being influenced by
day-timeframe traders, you're far more likely to witness constant support
and resistance taking place at half-back relative to the prior or current 30-
minute period. When the market is ignoring these nuanced references, it's
more likely that longer timeframes are active. The graphic in Figure 17.1
allows you to observe that on this sharply declining day, there is no unusual
activity around the half-back from the prior 30-minute period; longer-
timeframe sellers are active. It could be long liquidation, new money
selling, or a combination of the two. More information is required to make
this determination.
As always, monitor for continuation.
Orienting your trading strategy with an acute awareness of how the market
is responding to reference points is an important step toward successful
trading. Without this awareness, it's far more difficult to remain oriented to
what's actually occurring, and you're more likely to get whip-sawed.
NOT ALL REFERENCES ARE CREATED
EQUAL
Earlier we wrote that higher prices may be the cause of even higher prices
(and of course the opposite for lower prices). Higher prices may lead to
breakouts above bracket highs, yearly highs, etc. – a common occurrence,
and as traders, we deal with it every day.
What is more likely to catch you off-guard is the entry of systematic or
computer-based programs executed by commodity trading advisors, hedge
funds, family offices, etc. These programs are most likely to occur under
one of these conditions:

Figure 17.1 Example of a Market Not Influenced by Day-Timeframe
Traders
Markets searching for a low
Markets searching for a high
Trend continuation or acceleration
I find them most potent when associated with trend continuation, a market
action that is more likely to catch me off-guard; they're often sudden and
unexpected.
While I don't have access to these programs, I suspect they're driven by
price-based, quantitative algorithms.
These algorithms often have a trigger-point execution; I have observed that
these trades frequently begin at exacting references, such as a prior daily
high/low, half-back relative to the current day's trading (relative to the
entire day, not the 30-minute bar), the settle, etc. Once these programs are
underway, they can continue for days.
Figure 17.2 is a partial Profile that depicts the day-timeframe references
that occur when the shortest timeframes gain control. One of the primary
challenges of being a day-timeframe trader is other day-timeframe traders,
most of whom only know how to click “buy” and “sell,” react to visible
references, and chase momentum.
By learning to observe references, you greatly increase your chances of
knowing who is your actual competition in real time. This doesn't assure a
win, obviously, but it will certainly increase your odds of success.
Finally, when addressing references, you should create a tracking system.
It's difficult and often confusing to keep a complete list of short-term
references in mind. And it might seem simple to remember round numbers
(4,000, 5,000, etc.), but other, more nuanced references can become more
obscure and difficult to monitor over time.
Regarding older references, I'm fond of the phrase, “carrying information
forward.” The trick is to set those references aside that aren't likely to be
relevant today or tomorrow, while being able to retrieve them when prices
once again head that way. If you're not able to segregate nearby references
from longer-term references, confusion is liable to rule the day.

Figure 17.2 Example of a Market in Control of the Shortest Timeframe
It's easy to agree with this logic. But it's also easy to forget about it in the
heat of market mayhem.
OceanofPDF.com
CHAPTER EIGHTEEN
THIS TIME IS DIFFERENT
You may have already guessed what's coming. Peruse the Profile in Figure
18.1.
On Friday, February 2, 2024, the market advanced sharply, following strong
(and surprising) earnings from Meta. The ES tested the 5,000 level before
backing off.
Over the weekend, I posted the following “Week Ahead” video on our
YouTube channel (https://youtu.be/KAo0sR4QdXY): “This week's video
will be in two parts. The first is direct and to the point for Monday
morning's opening. The second part is more complex, exploring the
relationship between momentum and market-generated information.”
Part 1: “The last trade on Friday, as reported by the CME, was at 4,972.75,
which is just slightly above Friday's center. The closer Monday opens to the
center of the range, the greater the odds that we'll experience a rotational,
balancing day. Opening well above the center of the range increases the
odds that we will test Friday's high. Opening well below the center of the
range increases the odds that we will test Friday's low.”

Figure 18.1 The Profile Showing an Early Liquidating Break
Part 2: “Momentum is the market's leading indicator, with market-generated
information (MGI) being the lagging indicator. Momentum is the leading
indicator because of its simplicity to execute. MGI is far more complex,
incorporating volume and market structure.”
Then I defined the following potential scenarios:
Momentum and MGI in sync – market is healthy with good odds of
continuation.
Momentum and MGI showing mild divergence – odds favor
momentum continuation.
Momentum and MGI showing significant divergence – counter-
auction activity high.
Friday's market showed significant divergence relative to both shape
and volume.
The shape, from the low to the high, was overly elongated, suggesting
high emotional activity. Our emotional decisions aren't always reliable.
Volume as measured via the NYSE was weak, particularly relative to
the range. The commitment of buyers was low.
I lean to the downside.
Monday morning, February 5, 2024, fixed-income markets gapped sharply
lower (see Figure 18.2).
Additionally, on Sunday's 60 Minutes, Fed Chairman Jerome Powell
indicated the Federal Open Market Committee was wary of cutting rates too
soon, and a rate cut in March was off the table.
Recently, the market had been responding negatively to rising yields, and
there's an inverse relationship between bond price and yield. I was blinded
by outside forces. Never take anything for granted or automatically assume
a reaction to outside events.

Figure 18.2 The Gap in the Fixed-Income Market, February 5, 2024
The fact that there was not a continuing negative reaction to the rising
yields pointed toward short-term strength in equities.
MONDAY'S MARKET ACTION
The following example feels simple to me as I relive it. When I read about
something – as opposed to experiencing it in real time – I'm less
emotionally involved, which makes it difficult to grasp the underlying
importance.
To help you understand my thinking and emotional reactions, I'm presenting
two versions. The first is an abridged, sterilized version. The second will be
the unvarnished version, intended to convey a deeper understanding of the
competing emotions in play.
Abridged
Bonds immediately gap lower. I recall the market's recent reactions – lower
equity prices. Historically, I preach to trade the market based on its action,
not what some other market is doing.
I've mentally prepared myself for lower equity prices.
Early conviction was neutral, which was confusing. However, my mind was
fixated on the short side.
A delayed break in the ES confirmed my thinking.
The failure to take out Friday's low – suggesting that Monday was an
inside, balancing day – was recognized. But I wanted to see lower prices
and downward range extension to cover my loss from Friday, supporting
my (unexamined) downward bias.
I recognized that tempo had slowed, which should have been a call to action
to cover my short ES position, but my emotions refused to accept this
market-generated information. I didn't listen to MGI, but MGI was correct.
This information is of no value if you refuse to recognize it.
Unabridged
The opening Monday morning was within a few ticks of the halfway point,
relative to Friday's range. Consistent with the first part of the weekend's
YouTube recording, the market delivered an inside day with the settle
approximately at the center of Friday's range. MGI receives an A.
As measured by the Dow Jones, the early morning market was off more
than 400 points, closing approximately 250 points lower. MGI again
receives an A.
Your knowledgeable author, initially up a grand, ended the session with a
$700 loss.
You can guess why: I struggled emotionally. I grappled with the decision to
share what was occurring in the market, as well as what was going on in my
head. All too often we hear what traders say, which isn't necessarily what
they did.
Fear of missing out (FOMO) and my ego were the emotional factors driving
my trading decisions. The ego came into play, as I was carrying a loss from
Friday. The FOMO component relates to prior experience: Leading up to
the 1973–1974 break, during the time of the “Nifty 50,” there were similar
underlying structural weaknesses.
The 1987 break, which was the biggest on record, also showed substantial
underlying weaknesses. Had I taken my profit, I might have missed the
biggest downside reference, which was easily within striking distance.
As a short-term day trader, none of the above is relevant. Similar thinking
has undone many others. As a day-timeframe trader, the only thing relevant
is what other traders are doing.
WHAT MGI TOLD ME ABOUT OTHER
TRADERS THAT MORNING
I have continually stressed that early-morning confidence is one of the most
important keys to short-term trading. Morning confidence on the 5th was
extremely low. The market grudgingly tried to move higher, followed by an
attempt to go lower, followed by another attempt to go higher, until it
finally broke. Overall confidence was low.
The market opened approximately centered within the previous trading
day's range; the odds favored rotation. We got rotation.
Examining the Profile in Figure 18.1, you'll observe what appears to be a
liquidating break in the A, B, and C periods. Here's why I identified it thus:
Confidence was low from the opening. If this were real, aggressive,
meaningful selling, the odds would be better if the selling commenced
from the opening.
The market attempted to rally a couple times early in the morning.
This increased the odds that short-term inventory was becoming long.
The break did not take price outside of the previous day's range. Had
the selling been stronger, Friday's low was easily within reach.
Inspection of the Profile reveals an elongated structure, which is
typical of liquidating breaks.
Finally, tempo ground to a halt. In other words, the “offers” had dried
up. Tempo often initiates the call to action. Which, in this case, would
have been to cover my short.
As you have likely surmised, this is not a one-off occurrence. However, it
has occurred less and less frequently over the years. The best tool I have to
mitigate these circumstances is forcing myself to sit down and write out
what happened – to articulate my thoughts.
I don't keep a trade journal that records each trade. Rather, I keep a
psychological journal. Almost all of my issues are psychological or
emotional, rather than related to market understanding.
I sincerely hope that this discussion will reassure you that you're not alone.
STAYING FOCUSED ON THE WAY TO THE
FORUM
The following section wasn't part of the original book outline. But –
markets seldom conform to my preconceived ideas, either.
“A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum” is a musical by
Stephen Sondheim that chronicles the antics of a crafty slave who attempts
to win his freedom by helping his young master. The plot is filled with
mistaken identities, slapstick, and farcical situations as they navigate the
bustling streets of Rome. Along the way, we witness a series of comedic
misunderstandings and mishaps.
Sounds a lot like day trading.
As we recap the Profile in Figure 18.3 for the E-mini NASDAQ 100 for
February 6, 2024, ask yourself if you would've gotten trapped by price.
Sellers emerged early and consistently sold every rally until the last 90
minutes of the day. Staying calm and focused, in hindsight, is quite different
than maintaining composure through five hours of constant selling on every
rally attempt.
Figure 18.3 The Profile for the E-Mini NASDAQ 100 for February 6,
2024
CHUNKING TOWARD SUCCESS
If you let yourself get focused on price alone, you're likely to miss the most
significant information. This downhill spiral, for most traders, begins with
price addiction.
If I query a trader about what occurred in the market on a specific day,
they're likely to give me a linear recap. Conversely, the same query to an
established, successful trader will likely include what didn't happen. In fact,
repeating what we've said before, “What didn't happen is often equal to or
more important than what did happen.”
At this point, if you're scratching your head and wondering why this section
header refers to “chunking,” it's time for a reset. The constant selling during
the first 10 periods – with rallies in-between – never traded to or below the
previous session's low on February 5.
Chunking eases your mind away from price as you begin to envision the
tell-tale “b” formation – liquidation versus new money. Prior to the market
open, a quick review of the daily bars will remind you of the current trend,
and chunking is activated.
HOW WELL DO YOU KNOW YOURSELF?
February 6 clearly provided meaningful short-term trading opportunities,
both long and short. I have known few traders who can maintain a clear
perspective while trading both sides of the market. We have written about
self-awareness – this is an important subsection.
If it's a trending market, consider trading with the trend, which is far more
forgiving if you're wrong. If it's a trading range or bracketed market, once
you've identified the range, focus on your current trade location within the
bracket. Solid trade location is a powerful risk-management tool.
One of the most challenging aspects of bracket or range-bound trading is
the recognition that the best trades often fly in the face of the most recent
market activity.
Before the market opened on February 7, 2024, E-mini NASDAQ Globex
trade would open approximately 100 handles higher. The rally
communicated significant electronic buying prior to the opening.
Throughout this day you could've easily gotten trapped by the continual
selling. A more advanced view would have observed the selling relative to
the market's inability to fill the gap. Short-term traders were getting short,
and long-term traders were buying what they were selling.
SHORT IN THE HOLE
A frequent question asked during our intensives and public webinars is,
“How do you know when the market is getting too short?”
Once a market has gotten too short, the slang is: “The market is short in the
hole.” This simply means that traders are short at bad prices.
The Profile in Figure 18.3 allows you to observe a market that's getting
short in the hole. When inventory becomes too short, it can temporarily
strengthen the market, as the shorts must eventually buy to cover their
positions.
It's far too easy to get mesmerized by falling prices – without realizing the
upside potential. Refer again to the earlier paragraph showing that
electronic trade in E-mini NASDAQ was approximately 100 handles higher
prior to the opening on February 7 (Figure 18.4).
Figure 18.4 The Profile for the E-Mini NASDAQ 100 Prior to the
Opening on February 7, 2024
I'll leave you with this final thought: Sometimes the best short-term
opportunities fly in the face of the most recent market activity.
Intuition is our most valuable compass in this world. It is the bridge
between the unconscious and the conscious mind.
—Josh Waitzkin, The Art of Learning
OceanofPDF.com
CHAPTER NINETEEN
EMOTIONAL INTELLIGENCE: NAVIGATING
SELF AND MARKET
While it's important to provide a foundational understanding of my market
perspectives, the aim isn't to present a sanitized, step-by-step guide to
financial gain through trading.
Trading doesn't accommodate false hopes; it demands a realistic approach.
February 13, 2024, laid bare nearly every emotion experienced by traders.
To fully grasp this phenomenon, a background investigation is necessary.
Emotions were exposed as the Dow Jones Industrial Average experienced
its most significant drop since March 2023, losing more than 500 points, or
2%, after being down more than 700 points earlier in the session. The S&P
500 and the NASDAQ composite followed suit, declining 1.37% and 1.8%,
respectively. The catalyst for this downturn was the release of inflation data
that surpassed expectations, diminishing the likelihood of multiple rate cuts
by the Federal Reserve in 2024.
Historically, traders' expectations regarding the Fed's actions and its actual
decisions haven't consistently aligned. As we say so often, hope is not a
reliable trading strategy.
For the four months prior, the market had been one-timeframing higher.
“Monthly one-timeframing” means that for each advancing month, the low
from the previous month was not surpassed.
On Friday, February 9, for the first time ever, the S&P traded above and
found acceptance beyond 5,000 cash (Figure 19.1). Upon close examination
of this day's Profile, you'll see a double distribution (when there are single
prints between distributions). As we covered earlier, each distribution is
regarded as a separate day or auction.
Reviewing the Profile for Monday, February 12 in Figure 19.1 reveals that
price traded below the single prints separating the distributions. However,
there was no price acceptance within the lower distribution from February 9
– only single prints were observed at the low on February 12.
On February 12 two nuances caught my attention, both of which are
significant for traders. First, the precision of the low stood out, nearly
mirroring the low of the upper distribution from February 9. Such precision
often suggests the involvement of shorter-term, weaker-handed traders.
Second, the absence of excess at the February 12 high was notable.
Excess is a critical concept in our analysis, as it typically signals the
conclusion of one market auction and the start of another. The lack of
excess can often imply that short-term inventory has become overly long,
conveying a nuanced message about market dynamics. This can mean that
inventory has temporarily become too long, restricting the market from
advancing until inventory is rebalanced. Once inventory is adjusted, the
market can continue its advance.

Figure 19.1 The Profile Showing a Double Distribution
It's rare that a last auction is complete without excess. Mind the old trader
adage: Sometimes a market has to break before it can rally further.
Earlier, we discussed the catalyst triggering the liquidation on February 13.
The rationale behind this catalyst lies in a common trader behavior: Stick to
strategies that have proven successful until they no longer yield results. In
the lead-up to the market downturn, FOMO was driving the market higher.
THE WISDOM OF CROWDS
Prior to the close on Monday, February 12, ahead of the expected Consumer
Price Index (CPI) report on Tuesday morning, the market sold off, closing
near the low. I have seen this occur on many occasions.
In 1906, Francis Galton – a famous statistician and polymath – conducted
an experiment entitled “Wisdom of the Crowd.” A jar containing 800 beans
was displayed at a county fair, and participants were asked to guess the
number of beans in the jar. More than 100,000 guesses were collected.
No individual guess came close to the actual number; the closest was off by
80 beans. However, when the average of all the guesses was calculated, it
was within two beans of the correct answer!
The market is complex. Attributing a single explanation for market action is
extremely speculative. My observations, over the years, support observing
collective intelligence when attempting to determine what might happen
next.
TUESDAY'S GAP LOWER
On the surface, gap-trading guidelines are fairly clear-cut: on a downward
gap, sell when an early rally occurs, characterized by slowing volume and
tempo. Tuesday's scenario deviated from these guidelines; it took more than
three hours for sellers to overtake Tuesday's buyers (Figure 19.2).
Figure 19.2 The Profile of Tuesday, February 13, 2024
MARKET CONFIDENCE
For short-term traders, observing early market confidence – or lack thereof
– can assist in mentally positioning yourself for the day. When confidence
is high (within reason), there's a greater likelihood of seeing continuation
relative to early confidence levels. Conversely, when confidence is low,
there's a higher chance that the market will exhibit later rotation.
WHY DID THE MARKET DEVIATE?
There is never any certainty in the market. However, I speculated that early
selling confidence was low, as neither investment money nor larger trading
capital was interested in selling. If they were interested, it's unlikely they
would've waited more than three hours.
Shorter-term traders were likely liquidating into the early rally. Once the
liquidation began, the traditional follow-the-leader mentality took over,
eventually leading to the market becoming too short.
Next, we'll discuss the assessment of how the market was communicating
the fact that inventory was getting too short.
TEMPO
“Tempo” is defined as the speed or pace at which something progresses. It's
not something that can be taught directly. Rather, it must be acquired
through experience.
No matter how many NBA games you've watched, admiring the accuracy of
three-point specialists, your ability to make that basketball shot yourself (in
the heat of a game) is close to zero without the proper form, expertise, and
endless repetitions. Similarly, mastery of a subtle concept like “tempo” only
comes after accumulating significant skill and experience.
The tempo of price action on the afternoon of Tuesday, February 13, as the
market traded sharply lower, was remarkably sluggish. While it's
challenging to fully grasp this experience without witnessing it live, a
thorough review of the Market Profile on this day will reveal the extent of
the price drop, and the subsequent late recovery.
Learning to understand tempo doesn't come from books. However, the aim
here is to emphasize the significance of tempo awareness. Internalizing the
concept is a crucial step in setting yourself apart from your competitors.
EMOTIONS ASSOCIATED WITH TEMPO
The previous section offers a detached view of tempo, but once you
internalize it, tempo can trigger a variety of actions (and emotions). Earlier
in the book we referred to tempo as a potential “call to action.” Let's
explore potential actions from Tuesday afternoon, February 13, 2024:
1. Every trade has two sides – the entry and exit.
2. Tempo may prompt you to adjust a hedge.
This is a sterilized approach to tempo. Now let me recount the emotions I
experienced that Tuesday afternoon. They were intense.
As I often invoke during webinars and seminars, “The best trades often defy
the most recent market auction.” Executing on this advice is challenging.
The decision to buy on Tuesday afternoon, February 13, was technically
correct and well communicated via a slow tempo – but it felt nearly
impossible. Watching the market plummet 700 points on the Dow, there
were only two indicators suggesting a possible buy: The unusually slow
tempo, indicating the market was likely overly short; and the market being
only a few ticks above the January 31 high.
It's difficult to adequately convey the intense emotional turmoil that short-
term trading can induce. Mentally preparing ahead of time is one
recommended step; for instance, marking the January high on my Profile
served as a useful reference point.
Observe your emotions as you trade and begin to develop an understanding
of how your ability to reason can be severely hampered by unexamined
feelings.
Life is a comedy to those who think, a tragedy to those who feel.
—Jean Racine, Seventeenth-century French Playwright
OceanofPDF.com
CHAPTER TWENTY
MARKETS IN TRANSITION
“Markets in transition” is an important concept, referring to extended
periods of market consolidation followed by either trend continuation or
reversal; markets seldom demonstrate a “V” or inverted “V” shape. When
these “V” shapes do occur, they're often associated with unexpected black-
swan events, and tend to be short-term and quickly corrected. Mistaking
these unexpected auctions for changes in longer-term sentiment can be
financially devastating.
For the discussion to follow, consider that markets usually progress from
trend to balance (trading range), and then revert to the dominant trend or
reverse direction. The difficulty in communicating this concept lies in the
lack of a universal definition for “trend” or “balance.” This is similar to
people viewing a mountain range from different perspectives – from afar,
they appear much different than when you're standing at the base. In other
words, what you perceive relates to your distance (timeframe).
Shifting market sentiment is a process, not an instantaneous event. This
distinction is important, as many traders judge too quickly, not considering
that sentiment evolves gradually. This highlights the need for patience:
Avoid impulsive decisions based on short-term fluctuations.
A complex interplay of myriad factors influences market sentiment.
Recognizing that various economic, political, and psychological factors
come into play helps avoid attributing changes in sentiment to isolated
events – it's always more complicated than that. It's not uncommon for
market conditions to suggest that change may be present; however, it
sometimes requires a catalyst to actually trigger the change.
This kind of big picture mental preparation is vital for short-term traders.
BEWARE OF PROFESSIONAL TRADER BIAS
Professional traders' predictions regarding Federal Open Market Committee
(FOMC) actions are historically inconsistent – sometimes surprisingly so –
underlining the need for independent analysis. Avoid blind obedience to
expert opinions.
Developing the ability to wait for the right opportunities while controlling
emotional reactions to market movements is the hallmark of successful
traders. Recognize that changes in sentiment are gradual, influenced by
factors like inertia and confirmation bias. This ability (like all advanced
abilities) can only be gained through active experience.
Monthly and weekly bar charts can help you distinguish between
consolidating markets associated with trends, as opposed to markets in
transition, which are usually more extended events. Incorrect assumptions
can trap us into seeking only information that confirms our initial reactions,
when in reality, different forces are at work.
In the heat of the moment, it's easy to lose sight of the fact that markets in
transition often lead to a change in direction, but they can also resolve in a
continuation of the original direction. Too many traders fail to consider the
possibility of continuation when attempting to understand what kind of
transition is taking place.
A discussion related to the graphic in Figure 20.1 will allow us to better
visualize multiple occasions followed by transition or continuation.
(Remember, trading is an art, and not everyone will agree with the way I
label the elements in Figure 20.1.)
Figure 20.1 A Broader Perspective of the Markets via Monthly Bar
Chart
As a short-term trader, my perspective often gets overly focused on the
short term by the end of a trading session. To overcome this bias, the first
thing I do after the market closes is review the longest timeframe by
assessing the monthly bar chart, seeking to gain a broader perspective. Only
then do I refine my focus through the weekly bar.
Let's review my market observations from the monthly bar in Figure 20.1.
1. A multi-month trend is underway. No matter what biases you have,
trading with the trend is the optimal strategy. This means buying
breaks and taking profits on rallies.
Many traders can't help themselves and rush to short higher prices in
these kinds of circumstances. It's not uncommon for traders to begin
their careers favoring reversion-to-the-mean strategies.
Don't stick your head in the sand. A daily trade-tracking log can help
prevent reactionary tendencies, as it provides a larger context for
understanding what's really happening. As someone who has been
severely challenged by these kinds of market movements over the
years, I can't emphasize this enough: Don't fight trends.
If you can't resist and find yourself shorting an upward trend, you
want to be right almost immediately. During these periods I
constantly review the weekly and daily bars, along with Profiles, to
better refine entries and exits. Many traders will lose track of the
larger trend, which negates opportunity.
2. The market has transitioned from trend to trading range.
The monthly bar continues to suggest that the long-term trend remains
higher. Without reviewing the monthly bar each day, it's extremely
difficult to maintain this perspective. Weekly and daily bars – along
with daily Profiles – help you narrow your short-term perspective.
For the last five months in this trading range, the market had one-
timeframed higher. This is consistent with the long-term trend.
3. It is unusual to see a gap occur on the monthly bar (monthly gaps are
rare and Figure 20.1 does not have a gap in the monthly bar). Monthly
gaps indicate a rapid change in sentiment, often related to some kind
of black-swan event. As we wrote earlier, these events are often
followed by relatively quick recoveries.
Reading about this is unlikely to supercharge your emotions.
However, being actively engaged in the market during these periods
can be very challenging emotionally. When volatility increases
rapidly, there is no shame in stepping away for a few days until the
market clarifies itself. The danger of remaining in these markets is
twofold: first, a loss of financial capital, but more importantly, the risk
of losing substantial emotional capital.
I believe that emotional capital is the more important of the two.
The downside breakout fails at the 50-month moving average. While
I'm not a technician, I do plot the 50-day, 100-day, and 200-day
moving averages on the daily bar chart, as they are widely followed
by multiple timeframes. I pay close attention to the 200-day moving
average, as it garners investment attention.
4. The market returns to trend for the next 13 months. Numbers 1, 4, 7,
and 11 in Figure 20.1 all represent upside trends. As traders, we are
overwhelmed with short-term stimuli that can feed our biases – either
positively or negatively. The daily review of the monthly bar chart will
help you remain focused. Again, the first thing I do following the
market close is review the monthly bar for perspective.
Trading against the trend is the fastest way to lose your capital. The
most positive approach to trading is buying strength – unless the trend
shows weaker volume on rallies and higher volume of pullbacks, stay
with the trend.
5. The pandemic was a black-swan event and was short-lived. The U.S.
stepped in with both fiscal and monetary policy changes to stem the
decline.
The downside breakout fails at the 100-month moving average.
6. The application of fiscal and monetary policy stemmed the break
related to the pandemic, returning the market to prior levels.
Uncertainty was high, and the market remained in a tight balance for
the next four months.
7. A classic breakout from the four-month balance, with the market
trending higher for the next 13 months. Viewing the upside breakout
after the fact – when your emotions are not involved – is
straightforward. Following pandemic volatility and a four-month
balance that puts you to sleep, it can be hard to believe the breakout is
real.
Daily preparation, starting with the monthly bar, creates the best odds
for getting onboard the trend. Once the trend is underway, seek to
continually maintain perspective: Start each day by reviewing the
monthly bar, which will strengthen your confidence to remain with
the trend.
Along the way, there will be experts who disagree with the trend.
There will be an equal number of experts projecting even higher
levels.
THE BIGGEST OBSTACLE TO STAYING WITH
THE TREND IS YOU
The weekly and daily bars will occasionally expose you to counter-
auctions, which are healthy relative to the longer-term trend, as they allow
inventory to rebalance. This all seems very logical in the safe environment
of reading a book. However, as a human, your instincts will most likely
work against you – confirmation bias may be at work, as many experts will
disagree with the rally.
8. To understand Number 8 in Figure 20.1, start by looking at the last
monthly bar in Number 7. Now look at the first monthly bar in Number
8. Notice the distance traveled from the low in Number 7 to the high in
Number 8. I grew up north of Chicago in a hilly section surrounding a
lake. My red wagon always ran fastest at the bottom of the hill.
You are observing the laggard buyers.
The fourth bar in Number 8 shows a non-linear break in the market;
notice how this follows the laggard buyers. Without a deeper
understanding and appreciation of how the market works, you're
likely to be confused and get whip-sawed. Watching laggards top a
market is confusing as prices often move rapidly.
Doing your (often tedious) daily preparation – starting with the
monthly, weekly, and daily bars – provides you with the best odds of
keeping your perspective sharp and your emotions in check. I have
learned the expensive way that you're often better off being a little
late rather than a little early when markets transition.
The final three months under Number 8 demonstrate balance, and
balance-trading guidelines are applicable to all timeframes.
If you're a very short-term trader, an inside 30-minute bar would
represent balance.
A slightly longer timeframe trader might consider two or three
overlapping 30-minute bars as balance.
Progressing toward longer timeframes next might be an inside
day followed by two overlapping days, etc.
Our current discussion, under Number 8, views the final three
months as balanced.
Balance-trading rules are as follows, to refresh your perspective:
Remaining within balance further tightens the balance.
Go with any breakout from balance. This will be dictated by your
timeframe.
Fade or go against any breakout that fails. On a failed breakout,
the potential destination is the opposite end of the balance area.
9. Following the downside breakout from the balance seen in Number 8
above (Figure 20.1), the market entered a 12-month trading range.
Notice the failed upside breakout in the fourth month. Reflect again
on the balance-trading guidelines.
10. This six-month trading range was extremely difficult, as the market
never clearly distanced itself from the previous trading range. The
monthly bar is only the starting point to maintain perspective. The
weekly and daily bars allow you to more cleanly hone your shorter-
term trading perspective.
11. The breakout from the six-month balance shown in Number 10 (Figure
20.1) saw the market transition back to trend.
Chapter 21 gets granular about the importance of preparation, repetition,
and the path to a balanced approach to trading.
I never won a fight in the ring. I always won in preparation.
—Mohammed Ali
OceanofPDF.com
CHAPTER TWENTY-ONE
EXPLICIT/IMPLICIT LEARNING
As you have undoubtedly noticed, we're now delving deeply into real-world
market examples to provide context and color to the fundamental concepts
described in the first half of the book. As we progress through these
illustrations, I will occasionally evoke the difference between explicit and
implicit learning.
Explicit learning involves the conscious acquisition of knowledge and skill
through direct instruction and deliberate practice. You are aware of what
you're learning and can articulate what you know. Implicit learning, on the
other hand, occurs unconsciously through exposure to information and
experience. This form of learning leads to the acquisition of knowledge and
skill without conscious awareness – you can't necessarily articulate what
you've learned, but you're still influenced by it. Implicit learning comes
from repeated practice and experience.
Let's return to our baseball analogy to make this real. Hitting a baseball
involves a combination of explicit learning – which involves conscious
instruction, analysis, and decision-making strategies – and implicit learning,
honed through extensive practice and experience. Both forms contribute to
a player's ability to succeed at the plate.
Explicit learning involved in hitting:
Instruction and feedback: Coaches provide precise instruction on
hitting techniques and strategies, offering feedback on mechanics,
approach, and decision-making.
Cognitive strategies: Players employ cognitive strategies like
visualization to enhance focus and performance.
Pitch analysis: Coaches and players analyze pitch data, studying
video footage to identify patterns and weaknesses in opposing pitchers.
Plate discipline: Players learn to recognize pitches outside the strike
zone through conscious decision-making.
Adjustments and problem-solving: When faced with challenges or
slumps, players seek explicit advice from coaches and make deliberate
swing adjustments.
Implicit learning involved in hitting:
Motor skills acquisition: By repeatedly swinging the bat, players
develop muscle memory (chunking) for proper mechanics, such as
stance, grip, and swing path.
Perceptual abilities: Players subconsciously learn to judge the speed,
trajectory, and spin of an incoming pitch, allowing them to anticipate
where and when to swing the bat.
Timing and coordination: Over time, players learn to sync their body
movements with the pitch's arrival without needing to consciously
think about it.
Adaptation to variability: Implicit learning enables players to adapt
to the variety of pitch types, adjusting their swing based on subtle cues
in the pitcher's delivery and the ball's flight path.
Pattern recognition: Players develop an intuitive sense of pitch
patterns and tendencies, enabling them to anticipate pitch types and
locations based on situational cues.
TAKE ME OUT TO THE MARKET
Applied to trading, it's easy to see (from this distance) that both explicit and
implicit learning inform your ability to step up to the plate and execute a
trade. Less experienced traders usually rely more on an explicit approach to
trading, mechanically applying the rules they've learned. More experienced
traders, on the other hand, tend to rely more on their intuition born of
experience – the deeper, less obvious results of implicit learning.
As you read at the outset of this book, trading is a nuanced art. That means
developing a balanced approach that incorporates the nuts and bolts of
explicit learning with the nuance of all those “at bats,” when your
subconscious steadily built a foundation of understanding that cannot be
easily quantified in a “here's how you trade” book.
Thus the long list of trading methods and philosophies that, followed
explicitly, don't tend to result in profits. Many hedge funds and commodity
trading advisors – having failed to develop an implicit understanding of the
nuances of trading – have introduced explicit programs that result in sharp
ups and downs. (I don't have statistical evidence of this, but I doubt that
there is much consistency in this approach.)
In my online and real-time trading courses, oriented toward day and short-
term trading, one of the most common questions I'm asked is, “Do you offer
setups?” The answer is a resounding (if disappointing) “No!” If setups were
actually available, they would be arbitraged away immediately by large,
computer-based trading firms.
We have turned away many potential clients when we recognized that
they're simply not mentally or emotionally ready to begin the extremely
difficult task of becoming a profitable trader.
Now let's examine explicit and implicit learning in the context of trading.
EXPLICIT LEARNING INVOLVED IN TRADING
Trading methods are acquired through textbooks, courses, webinars, and
other structured learning processes. Learning how to use market-generated
information includes the construction of the Market Profile, value areas,
point of control, gaps, etc. – all explicit indicators.
Larger concepts can be explicit as well, such as learning to identify trending
markets versus balancing markets, and how the market transitions from one
to the other. You learn the mechanics of strategies associated with breakouts
from balanced markets, for example, along with frameworks for developing
your own style and approach.
It's important to acknowledge that explicit learning often leads to a false
sense of confidence, along with a rigidity that blocks your ability to
integrate implicit knowledge, only developed after many, many at-bats (so
to speak).
Overdependence on explicit learning can virtually guarantee a negative
outcome. Take note of warning-sign questions you may ask yourself
without considering the larger context of momentum and timeframe: Where
do I enter? Where do I place a stop? When do I get out?
The constant need for exacting answers can alert you to this
overdependence.
Trading without taking the time to develop implicit learning is dangerous.
Without a sound foundation earned from countless hours of observing
market behavior, you're like a loose leaf buffeted by strong winds.
IMPLICIT LEARNING INVOLVED IN TRADING
Through repeated exposure to the intricacies and endless varieties of market
behavior, you begin to recognize patterns associated with long liquidation
and short covering, for example. You develop your intuition, like a batter
who starts to get a feel for the nuance of how a curve ball leaves the
pitcher's hand.
Intuition complements your explicit knowledge, and you begin to sense
situations that can lead to short covering and long liquidation before they
become manifest in the tell-tale “p” and “b” formations.
Through implicit learning and reflection, you develop emotional
intelligence that gives you the opportunity to make rational decisions,
unaffected by surges in heart rate when fear, envy, or desire limit your
brain's abilities and cause tunnel vision.
Implicit learning increases your flexibility to adjust to constantly evolving
markets. And you only get it by stepping into that batter's box, again and
again and again.
EXPLICIT–IMPLICIT INTERACTION
Your foundation of market understanding is developed by gathering explicit
knowledge. Then, over time, implicit knowledge begins to help you refine
and adapt that explicit knowledge to the endlessly interactive world of
trading.
The two forms of learning are complementary and must be balanced. Over-
reliance on explicit learning leaves you too inflexible to deal with rapidly
changing markets. Without a solid foundation, the odds of getting
whipsawed greatly increase.
Repetition with variation, combined with focused mentorship, helps refine
your intuition and emotional control. Tracking your trades can provide
valuable insights into the way your emotions affect your execution and
overall market approach.
Markets are dynamic – what works today may be a terrible strategy
tomorrow. Explicit knowledge is too slow and inflexible to adjust to
changing market conditions, while implicit knowledge is faster and more
intuitive.
Explicit learning precedes implicit learning. Explicit learning is constant
and deliberate, while implicit learning is unconscious and automatic. The
final goal is to develop a feel for the market that lets you pick up subtle
clues from price movements, news events, and other market data. You'll be
able to adapt your trading approach based on past experiences and intuition,
avoiding common trading mistakes without constantly analyzing them.
Balance the explicit and implicit and you will improve your ability to react
quickly and instinctively to market changes; you'll be well on your way to
becoming an expert trader.
I think about baseball when I wake up in the morning. I think about it all
day and I dream about it at night. The only time I don't think about it is
when I'm playing it.
—Carl Yastrzemski, 18-Time All-Star, Member of the 3,000-Hit Club
OceanofPDF.com
CHAPTER TWENTY-TWO
EVOLVING INTUITION
Most traders overlook the pivotal role of intuition in achieving trading
success. Among the recommended readings integral to this book is Gut
Feelings: The Intelligence of the Unconscious by Gerd Gigerenzer. More on
Gigerenzer in a moment, but first let's revisit the notion that momentum
trading is the primary approach employed by short-term traders – despite its
often poor results. When you integrate market-generated information (MGI)
into momentum trading, you add crucial context to the decision-making
process. Great thinkers all the way back to the Greek philosopher Heraclitus
emphasized the importance of context in learning.
MGI + context: This concept can pave the way for the evolution of your
intuition.
YOUR ONGOING LEARNING JOURNEY
For more than 40 years, I've endeavored to empower traders with market-
generated insights. Unfortunately, many traders only seek such information
after they've faced many failures. They often underestimate the complexity
of trading as a pursuit, so that when they finally turn to MGI, they're
already inundated with misinformation.
As we often state: Unlearning is a significant challenge.
Trading cannot simply be “taught”; it must be self-taught. Two essential
components of this process involve self-awareness and your subconscious.
The journey begins by acknowledging the potency of intuition, then
actively working to enhance it.
Intuition undergoes a fascinating transformation as it evolves, shaped by
experience, expertise, and context. Gerd Gigerenzer's exploration in Gut
Feelings underscores a central theme: Less becomes more as intuition
matures.
Consider the journey of a novice, for whom simplicity and deliberate focus
are paramount. I always advise novices to concentrate and take their time,
accumulating explicit knowledge to enhance their performance and refine
their instincts.
As one progresses along the path of expertise, the landscape shifts; what
once propelled growth may now inhibit it. The seasoned professional
requires a different approach that embraces complexity and allows for
fluidity of thought. In this evolution, the intuitive process transcends mere
concentration; it becomes a nuanced interplay of knowledge, pattern
recognition, and swift decision-making, where the subtleties of intuition
dance harmoniously with the complexities of experience.
Gigerenzer's insights illuminate not just the development of intuition, but
also its adaptive nature, reminding us that in the realm of intuition, the
journey from simplicity to complexity is a dynamic voyage. It might seem
paradoxical that as you gain experience and market knowledge, the
principle of “less is more” becomes a vital component of nuanced trading.
I believe that all wisdom consists in caring immensely for a few right
things, and not caring a straw about the rest.
—John Buchan
An example from Gigerenzer will help you internalize this discussion. A
novice and an experienced golfer were each told to take their time, check
their stance, etc. before hitting the ball. The novice performed better than
normal, while the experienced golfer underperformed.
In this traditional “speed-accuracy trade-off,” thinking too much about the
process can actually disrupt performance.
THE POWER OF INTUITION
Markets can change quickly following breakouts, news announcements, and
other events. In these moments, when time is limited and information is
incomplete, our honed intuition can be invaluable for making rapid
decisions in a chaotic environment.
Pattern recognition based on experience can empower us to draw
conclusions without constantly having to analyze every possible detail. In
fact, getting lost in details can cause us to overthink the situation, or
respond too slowly to capture opportunity. In addition, conventional
logic/analysis often inhibits the creative process; we want to trust the
experts, systems, and emotional whims that constantly besiege us as we
watch markets unfold.
True intuition, on the other hand, is based on deep market understanding,
and should not be considered a “knee-jerk reaction.”
For the expert, emotional intelligence has been constantly refined through
experience. By the time explicit clues have surfaced, short-term opportunity
may have passed and less experienced traders are left flailing in the
aftermath.
Many inexperienced traders fail to understand the extended process by
which intuition becomes reliable, and so become overconfident in their
nascent “intuitive judgments.” The higher the stakes, the greater the
consequences of this kind of overconfidence. Over the years, I've noticed
that the people who tell me that they're “fast learners” tend to be the same
individuals who make these kinds of destructive decisions, based on
hunches rather than deep pattern recognition.
Our personal biases, emotions, and past experiences can weaken our
intuitive ability. An honest self-assessment is critical in constantly
reassessing our intuitive skill, and if necessary, setting a corrective course.
Intuition is often unreliable in unfamiliar situations. The influx of new
money into the stock market following the COVID-19 pandemic is an
example of a situation in which intuition became less reliable; substantial
numbers of first-time traders, flush with COVID-19 funds, changed market
complexity in perplexing ways.
Intuition is not a substitute for critical thinking and rational analysis.
Recognizing the strengths and weaknesses of intuition is a powerful
component of successful trading.
INTUITION OF THE MASTERS
I will end this chapter with a brief review of the way three brilliant minds
describe intuition: Garry Kasparov, the highest rated chess player in the
world for more than 20 years; Josh Waitzkin, a dual champion in chess and
martial arts who was portrayed in Searching for Bobby Fischer; and Roger
Martin, author of The Opposable Mind.
Kasparov acknowledges the importance of intuition in both chess and life.
In his teaching, intuition refers to the ability of experienced players to make
quick decisions based on patterns and a deep understanding of the game.
Intuition allows a player to assess a position rapidly, choosing the most
promising course of action without necessarily being able to articulate the
precise reasons behind the decision. Kasparov emphasizes that intuition is
not a substitute for calculated analysis, but rather a complement to it.
Waitzkin emphasizes the need to develop intuition through deep
understanding and practice. He describes intuition arising from a
combination of knowledge, experience, and pattern recognition. A deep
intuitive understanding can only be gained by immersing yourself in the
subject, repeatedly engaging with its complexities and nuances until you
don't have to actively “think” about what to do next. The best players
seamlessly integrate calculation and intuitive judgments, with intuition
playing a central role when split-second decisions are required that don't
allow for conscious deliberation.
Martin suggests that intuition is not purely innate, but can be cultivated and
refined over time with experience and reflection. He encourages individuals
to trust their intuition while also honing their critical thinking skills in order
to ensure a balanced approach to decision-making. He believes that
intuition is most valuable when faced with uncertainty or incomplete
information.
These three masters agree that success is enhanced by the ability to harness
both rational analysis and intuitive insight, empowering us to remain calm
and focused in ambiguous situations, when incomplete information makes
rapid decision-making uniquely challenging.
This philosophy is perfectly applicable to short-term trading.
OceanofPDF.com
CHAPTER TWENTY-THREE
BRINGING IT ALL TOGETHER
From this point forward, we'll focus on examining individual days and the
nuances associated with trading these sessions. The following examples
come from March 5 and 6, 2024. As a reminder, successful short-term
trading is often highly dependent on what happened prior to the current
trading day.
BACKGROUND
The market continues to trend higher with a series of new all-time highs.
For the past five months, the market has been one-timeframing higher.
1. On the morning of March 5, 2024, the market gaps lower on news that
APPL's sales in China have declined sharply. APPL and other tech
stocks have been under pressure for some time.
2. Notice that the shape of the early Profile in Figure 23.1, from the high
to Number 2 looks like the letter “b.” Earlier we described this
formation as representing a liquidating break. Learning to interpret this
kind of structural clue is pivotal to translating market-generated
information (MGI) into action.
A liquidating break represents an imbalance in selling long positions
– old business. While there will naturally be some new selling, the
prominent business is liquidation of existing positions.
We're often asked, “How do you know the market has gotten too
short?” You can never be sure. However, learning to read and
interpret structure and MGI puts you in a better position to make this
judgment.
3. The movement from Number 2 to Number 3 is most likely the result of
shorter-term traders misinterpreting the earlier price break. Most
traders operate purely from the point of view of price, making no
distinction between liquidation and new-money selling. Liquidation
can in fact strengthen the market, as it removes overhead resistance.
Remember, “Sometimes markets have to break before they can rally.”
Weaker hands are replaced with stronger hands.
Almost all market breaks begin with liquidation. If there is a healthy
combination of liquidation and new-money selling, the structure of
the Profile is likely to be more elongated. A solid combination of
liquidation and new-money selling produces higher odds of downside
continuation.
Later in the session – K and L periods – short-term traders again
begin to sell, forcing price lower. Traders were getting caught “short
in the hole,” or short at poor prices. Additionally, tempo was
extremely slow on the afternoon of March 5, suggesting that laggard
traders, following only price, continued to sell the market.
Tempo can't be taught; it is only learned through experience. In
addition, tempo can't be universally applied, because tempo with the
trend is usually interpreted differently than tempo against the trend.
Slowing tempo with the trend often means that directional activity is
slowing down and may indicate that inventory is rebalancing.
Slowing tempo against the trend often provides an opportunity for
traders who are on board the trend to add to their positions, and for
other traders to participate in the trend.

Figure 23.1 The Profiles of March 5, 2024, and March 6, 2024
Review the “settle” in relationship to the low for the session and
you'll see confirmation of the late short covering.
The center Profile records overnight trade. It's not unusual for
overnight trade to continue in the direction last witnessed during New
York Stock Exchange hours.
The observation revealed in Number 3 relates to the “non-excess”
low. When traders are caught too short, it's not unusual to witness this
kind of low. To better appreciate this nuance, reflect on how you feel
once you realize that you're caught short – when the market trades
near the low, there is a sigh of relief as you cover. Once the short
covering gets underway, buying begins to feed on itself.
4. As a review, overnight inventory is measured from the settle to the
overnight high or low. In the current example, the settle it is at
5,085.50 with the overnight high being at 5,121.50 – overnight
inventory is long.
Approximately 75% of the time, the ES (E-mini S&P 500)
experiences a counter-auction relative to overnight inventory. If
overnight inventory is long, the counter-auction would result in
selling. The odds turned out to be reliable, as selling occurred
following the opening.
5. The liquidation of overnight inventory drove the market down to the
5,100 level where buyers re-emerged (remember, the long-term trend
is up). As a general rule, when the trend is up, the most productive
strategy is to buy breaks, taking profits on rallies. Buying the break at
the 5,100 level would've been consistent with this strategy.
6. Once you're engaged in a trade (in this example, a long), your focus is
on monitoring for completion. The two most complex, pivotal
concepts we introduce in our educational programs are “Let the trade
come to you” and “Monitor for continuation.”
Observation – the first step in chunking – reveals that the D and E
lows were almost matching. This kind of nuance only gets noticed
with time. The almost-matching low is characteristic of the action of
weaker day-timeframe traders. In other words, the odds are that the
buying at the D and E lows were not from longer-term traders or
investors; shorter-term traders have limited staying power.
Recognizing who you're competing against is one of the most
important steps in becoming successful.
7. The almost matching F, G, and H lows (chunking continues) are
communicating the compounding risk of holding long positions.
8. I and J periods represent the culmination of MGI observed under
Number 6 and Number 7 above.
9. When prices decline, as they did under Number 8, traders immediately
begin to speculate on the nature of the selling: was it primarily
liquidation, or a more potent combination of liquidation and new-
money selling?
The market's inability to meaningfully extend below the 5,100 level implies
that we witnessed liquidation, rather than the more potent option. Exacting
levels like 5,100 often convey multiple messages. The first is that short-
term traders accept this level as “support.” The second message, because of
a lack of lower excess, suggests a dearth of interest from longer timeframes.
This observation helps us understand that the odds suggest this level is
temporary.
OceanofPDF.com
CHAPTER TWENTY-FOUR
MARKETS HANDLE CURRENT BUSINESS
FIRST
Short-term trading, heavily orientated toward day trading, is extraordinarily
challenging. As of this writing in late March 2024, short-term trading is
attracting the largest volume and participation; options volume alone is
reportedly similar to New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) volume.
Markets must deal with immediate activity before pursuing their larger
purpose, which is to serve as a platform for buying and selling shares of
publicly traded companies, providing liquidity for investors, and enabling
corporations to raise capital. That immediate interruption often takes the
form of a widespread emotional reaction to a news event, which can result
in temporary inventory imbalances, followed by short-covering rallies or
liquidation breaks as the markets seek to rebalance inventory.
Because this kind of reaction is common, an exception to the customary,
emotional knee-jerk response can signal that significant change is
underway. The most common exception occurs when the market is balanced
in a tight, well-defined trading range. This sort of “balance area” indicates
the market is waiting for new information before beginning its next
directional auction.
Reviewing March 18–20 as a continuum highlights some of the challenges
faced by short-term and day traders. A review of the chart in Figure 24.1
shows the long-term trend is clearly up, with the monthly bar one-
timeframing higher for the previous five months.
Figure 24.1 Long-Term Trend in the Monthly Bar Chart
A closer inspection, via the daily bar chart in Figure 24.2, allows us to
observe the low-confidence environment preceding March 18, 2024 – for
the prior 17 trading sessions, there was no continuity or direction.
Figure 24.2 The Daily Bar Chart, February 5–March 20, 2024
Figure 24.3 The Profile Showing Gap Higher on March 18, 2024
On the morning of March 18, positive news led the market to gap higher on
the opening (Figure 24.3). (Refresher: Gaps, either up or down, are
measured from the previous day's high or low – not from the settle.)
The biggest challenge for short-term traders is to react to current business.
The biggest challenge for slightly longer-term traders is to recognize what's
happening in the shorter term, without losing perspective of the larger
context.
In this three-day example, the cross-currents between day-timeframe and
longer-term information are extremely challenging. (I've often confessed to
reading certain books and passages many times before finally appreciating
the depth and complexity of the author's message.) Beyond-day-timeframe
traders may be better equipped to take the 18th in their stride if they're
clearly focused on the longer trend – which is not to imply they should
overlook this trading session! By fully appreciating what happened on
March 18, they are better equipped for what occurs on the following days.
Figure 24.4 The Daily Bar Chart for February–March 2024
Let's unpack this concept by examining the challenges of dealing with
“current business.” #1–  #8 refer to Figure 24.3; #9–#15 refer to Figure 24.5;
#16–#19 refer to the daily bar chart in Figure 24.4.
Figure 24.5 The Profile for March 19, 2024
1. The market gaps higher with A and B periods lows almost matching.
While the gap holds, the proximity of the two lows suggests relatively
low confidence.
Day-timeframe traders are advised to go with gaps, then monitor for
continuation.
2. B period rallies to within a few ticks of the high on the 14th. This is an
important day-timeframe high for the day trader.
3. The longer-term trader should notice the accumulation of highs from
the 12th, 13th, 14th, and 18th. This higher level is finding more and
more price acceptance.
4. C period delivers an inside-balancing bar.
5. The day trader, if they have not already exited a long, should exit as D
period trades below the C period inside bar. Balance-trading guidelines
are applicable to all timeframes.
6. The structural “b” formation of the Profile communicates liquidation,
rather than a more potent combination of liquidation and new-money
selling.
7. The structural message should be recognized by longer-term traders as
positive for future upside continuation. Only the most experienced,
attuned traders will recognize this combination of factors: the
accumulation of highs from the 12th, 13th, 14th, and 18th; followed by
the “b” formation; and liquidation on the 18th – these add up to
support of upside continuation.
Understanding the complexity of the 18th and its conflicting
messages is where the “rubber meets the road,” if you're to survive as
a trader.
8. Reviewing the 18th, observe that the final M period presented traders
with a downward price spike – exploration late in the day when there
wasn't enough time to determine if the spike was accepted or rejected.
Here are a few spike guidelines:
a. The top of the spike in a downward spike is resistance.
b. Trading within the spike during the following session represents
acceptance of the spike.
c. Trading above the top of the spike on following days
communicates that prices had not only traded low enough to cut
off selling, but had traded low enough to attract buyers.
9. The market gaps lower on the 19th. Here are a few gap guidelines:
a. Go with gaps that aren't filled in fairly quickly.
b. The best short opportunity on a downward gap occurs on an
attempt to fill the gap, when both upward volume and tempo
slow.
On a short, monitor for continuation. As prices trade lower, downward
continuation should come with lower prices, lower value, and
increasing volume.
Trade location helps maintain perspective. The following daily bar
graphic in Figure 24.4 illustrates the importance of trade location on
the morning of the 19th. There are a lot of moving pieces, each of
which can challenge your objective perspective with conflicting
emotions.
10. The market failed to carry higher on the 18th, with a lower price spike
late in the session.
Overnight witnessed downward continuation followed by a lower gap
opening, then downside follow-through early on the morning of the
19th. A quick review of the bar chart provides important information
about trade location. Your daily preparation should have identified the
long-term trend was up, or up and balancing.
The early downward price exploration on the morning of the 19th was
originally inconclusive. Reference graphic in Figure 24.5.
11. The upside breakout from the B period inside bar was an alert that
change was possible.
12. Notice that the C period high was a single tick from closing the gap –
this important nuance indicates that sellers, from such an exacting
reference point, are likely to be weaker, day-timeframe traders with
limited staying power. As the market has broken to the upside from the
early morning low and inside bar, the odds favor upside continuation.
13. Closing the gap increases the odds of upside continuation. This is more
likely following the morning's downside test, followed by the upside
breakout of the B period inside bar.
14. The top of the spike from the 18th is resistance. Trading above the
spike continues the positive auction.
15. From the upside breakout in C period, the market one-timeframes
higher for the next six 30-minute periods.
16. The final trading period again approaches the cluster of highs
discussed earlier. This greatly increases the odds of upside
continuation because excess is limited here, which indicates the
cumulative acceptance of price at higher levels. The market has
continued to balance, and the longer the balance, the greater the odds
that a breakout from that balance will be dynamic.
17. Finally, you will recall that balance is the market's plea for additional
information, prior to beginning a new auction. Markets progress from
trend to balance, or from balance to trend.
18. On the 20th (Figure 24.2), the release of the Federal Open Market
Committee's March statement was that “new information” the market
was waiting for.
19. Balance trading guidelines are once again in play.
This sequence of days provided an excellent example of the many ways
information can be confounding, if not viewed in the proper context. No
matter what your trading timeframe is, you will benefit from balancing an
understanding of the market's longer-term motivation with the immediacy
of the day's unfolding indicators – which often conflict and confound,
leaving novice traders grasping at anything that will confirm their
preconceived notions.
It's a useful exercise to try and feel the emotions that might have raced
through your nervous system on these days. As I've repeated a thousand
times before (and will repeat until the end), everything is a series of facts
surrounded by other circumstances.
During the sequence of days discussed in this chapter, it would have been
easy to get lost focusing on the single factor of price, ignoring the influence
of time and value. You must keep your mind in equilibrium, balancing your
understanding of longer-term market momentum with the insights that
emerge from MGI, as revealed in the unfolding structure of the Market
Profile.
The biggest decision you make daily is what to focus on.
—Shane Parrish
OceanofPDF.com
CHAPTER TWENTY-FIVE
MAKING DECISIONS (IN THE HEAT OF THE
MOMENT)
Short-term traders face a relentless barrage of incomplete information.
Many fall prey to information overload, failing to discern what truly matters
within the current context. Successful traders, on the other hand, are able to
filter this barrage, focusing on the indicators that support meaningful action.
The late afternoon of March 26, 2024, serves as a solid illustration of this
reality (Figure 25.1). On the 26th, within a framework that perceived the
long-term trend was upward and balancing, value was developing higher.
General guidelines advise trading with developing value, but following that
theory blindly can lead to disappointment.

Figure 25.1 The Profiles from March 20 to March 26, 2024
A broader observation reveals a recent pattern adopted by short-term traders
(Figure 25.1):
1. On March 21, short-term traders liquidated late in the session.
2. The same liquidation pattern recurred on the 22nd.
3. Similarly, it was observed again on the 25th.
4. Without recognizing this pattern from preceding sessions, traders were
likely to get caught off-guard when the market suddenly shifted late in
the afternoon on the 26th.
5. Highs in periods H, I, J, K, and L were all comparable. Based on
previous observations and experience, it was likely that these highs
would be surpassed. A few reminders are pertinent here:
a. Trading is more art than science.
b. Probability does not retain memory.
c. Intuition may sometimes defy the odds.
6. The example in question is in two-tick increments, and there was no
excess at the all-time high.
7. There was no excess on the 22nd. The absence of excess can
sometimes indicate that short-term inventory has become excessively
long.
I began this chapter on decision-making with this unusual example to
underscore that while rote learning is a standard starting point, it alone will
not set you apart from the competition; it's merely the first step on the long
journey to becoming a proficient trader.
Too often, traders strive to compete by fixating on the same references as
everyone else. While these references are relevant, achieving success in
short-term trading demands unwavering focus, imagination, and creative
problem-solving.
Successful trading is process-driven, but once your process is well-defined
you must become adept at recognizing anomalies and nuances.
TRADERS DO WHAT WORKS – UNTIL IT
DOESN'T
As I'm in the process of writing this book, I'm pleased that the market has
once again provided a marvelous piece of serendipity with this challenging
example. Consider this chapter a practice test: If you want to gain a
glimmer of the challenges of short-term trading, thoroughly own this
chapter before moving on, without putting any time constraints on yourself.
A recap of the previous example: Short-term traders pressed the sell side at
the end of the day for three days in a row. By the fourth day, March 26,
2024, short-term traders sold en masse as the day was ending (Figure 25.1).
The 26th strongly demonstrates the action of short-term traders who
frantically sold and sold and sold… until inventory was dangerously short.
This is an exceptionally clear example of the process by which a market
becomes short-in-the-hole (short at poor prices).
You can begin to understand why a market that becomes too short has also
accumulated short-term strength – buying is required to rebalance
inventory. Momentum traders are prone to attribute strength to the short
covering, which can weaken a market as the conditions that drove buying
no longer exist. In fact, it's not uncommon for momentum traders to take
inventory from too short directly to too long.
Yes, this is complex! Which accounts for the high rate of failure.
It's unlikely that you'll be successful by simply focusing on references.
Short-term trading is a game, and like any game, understanding your
competition and how they act is required to be competitive.
By the time the market opened on the 27th, price had returned to the high of
the 26th.
The following requires intense concentration: While prices rose overnight,
the odds were that the market remained very short. Only a small percentage
of day-timeframe traders trade overnight (we don't have data on this, only
years of observation).
The graphic of the 27th is provided in Figure 25.2.
Figure 25.2 The Profile on March 27, 2024
1. By the morning of the 27th, the market opened near the high of the
26th. When dissecting the 26th, we focused on the comparable H, I, J,
K, and L highs. The odds were against these almost-matching highs
lasting for an extended period. These extremely mechanical highs are
often the result of very short-term, day-timeframe sellers. This type of
high has high odds of being revisited, and the opening on the 27th
supported this analysis.
2. Short-term traders, having seen the market decline the previous
afternoon, sold into the opening. Because most short-term traders don't
trade overnight, inventory is likely becoming even shorter as short-
term traders were selling from the opening.
3. Late in the afternoon, traders – who had become conditioned by
witnessing the market sell off late in the session for the last four
sessions – begin to sell. The trap was set.
4. As short-term traders began to sell late on the afternoon of the 27th,
the shorts from the previous session and before were caught short, and
a massive short-covering rally was underway.
This is much simpler to write about than to execute.
On the afternoon of the 27th during K period, I suspected what was about to
occur. As price initially traded lower, my emotional response was to short.
However, experience told me the odds of a short-covering rally were high;
the best way to participate was through the purchase of out-of-the-money
calls.
We'll round out this chapter by continuing through Thursday March 28,
which was also the end of the first quarter.
My goal has been to present the 26th, 27th and now the 28th as a
continuum. You will know that you are fully engaged when you feel
immersed within these three days (Figure 25.3).
Figure 25.3 The Profile on March 28, 2024
1. One data point you should be carrying forward, as trading opens on the
28th, is the non-excess low from the 27th. It's only a single data point,
but you should be fully aware of it.
2. On the morning of the 28th, the market attempted to extend the short-
covering rally from the 27th.
Notice the “p” shape of the early rally, which represents short
covering rather than a more robust combination of short covering and
new-money buying. The odds of upside continuation are reduced.
Short-term traders have just experienced a sharp short-covering rally.
Price momentum is higher. Additionally, the all-time high is visible.
The “p” formation is market-generated information. Mind the
MGI.
There is no meaningful excess on the daily high.
3. The break in the H and I periods left no excess on the daily low – two
back-to-back, non-excess lows.
Following the non-excess low, K period rallied to new highs.
The pullback in L period was too sharp for there to be more than
short-term buying. This is an important nuance to observe. It is only a
single data point, but combined with the other information discussed
above, the odds were against reaching the all-time high.
4. Failing to reach the all-time high, late liquidation ended the session.
Once again, short-term traders trapped themselves.
The definition of insanity is doing the same thing over and over and
expecting different results.
—Albert Einstein
OceanofPDF.com
CHAPTER TWENTY-SIX
BEYOND PRICE: UNVEILING MARKET
DYNAMICS
Many traditional technical analysts would have you believe that price is the
sole determinant of market movements. But if price were truly everything,
why would anyone need to consider entry and exit points?
The foundation of market-generated information lies in three fundamental
components: price, which presents opportunities; time, which governs these
opportunities; and volume, which gauges the productiveness of these
opportunities. It is the intricate interplay of these components – across
market timeframes – that underscores the significance of price in the short
term.
Short-term trading, as distinct from long-term investing, is a strategic game
in which knowing your competitors is key. The competitive nature of this
game is obvious when you watch your adversaries attempting to gain an
advantage – which I witnessed in abundance during my early exchange
memberships on the Chicago Board of Trade and the Chicago Board
Options Exchange.
Price dynamics aren't always straightforward in short-term trading. Market
participants often obscure their true intentions, making it challenging to
discern exactly who initiated any given price action. Long-term players go
to great lengths to hide intentions that would alert short-term traders,
causing them to front-run their orders.
Identifying forces driving price changes is crucial for gaining a
competitive edge.
Let's begin by analyzing short-term trading activity on April 2, 2024, the
second day of the second quarter (Figure 26.1). The market experienced a
selloff at the quarter's onset as traders sought to capitalize on the gains of
the previous quarter, coupled with speculation regarding the Federal
Reserve's rate adjustments – historically challenging to predict. Adding to
the uncertainty, the morning of April 2 saw the release of the JOLTS report
on job openings and labor turnover survey, further unsettling the market.
SELL FIRST, ASK QUESTIONS LATER
The market opened significantly lower, with heightened volatility on April
2 exacerbating the downward pressure on prices. Assessing fair value and
executing trades at desired prices is exceedingly challenging under these
types of conditions. Liquidity dwindled as traders hesitated to enter
opposing buy orders amidst all the uncertainty. This lack of liquidity
amplified downward price momentum.
Figure 26.1 The Profile on the Morning of April 2, 2024
To mitigate risk, bid-ask spreads widened considerably, intensifying the
downward price spiral. Emotional responses from inexperienced traders –
particularly day and very short-term traders – were exacerbated by
volatility, and contributed to market inefficiencies; their reactions further
compounded existing flaws in the auction process.
Given these conditions, it's conceivable that the market became excessively
short during early day-timeframe trading.
Examining the events of April 2, it's evident that market structure aligns
with the aforementioned discussion. This knowledge can provide a
significant short-term trading advantage.
The high of the dotted arrow in Figure 26.1 represents the top of the gap on
April 2. Use your imagination to visualize a “b” formation, with the dotted
downward arrow representing the stem and the solid lines representing the
loop of the “b.”
As a reminder, this structure increases the odds that short-term inventory
has become dangerously short. If you only consider price, in this
circumstance, then you're more likely to expect additional selling.
Reviewing price in context conveys a more cautious perspective.
This structure is not new to you; however, the circumstances are not the
same. Additionally, the late afternoon price action is deceptive.
ALL-TIME HIGH
The all-time high occurred at 5,333.50 during the Globex trading hours on
March 31. While there's nothing written that says an all-time high can't
occur overnight, from my observation it would be a rarity for this high to
last very long. This is simply a single data point, but it does decrease the
odds of downside continuation.
Taking this thinking one step further, the manner in which the all-time high
was made decreased the odds that a resulting change in trend would occur.
In other words, the long-term trend remained up.
Many experts advocate for a linear learning approach, starting with
foundational concepts. Following this “rote learning,” they suggest
acquiring practical experience. Most recommend deferring the study of
nuances until later stages.
I find this advice to be impractical, particularly in fields like trading in
which delaying attention to nuance can result in significant financial losses
during the learning process.
The action of short-term traders during the afternoon of April 2 underscores
an important nuance. On that morning, the market experienced a sharp
downward gap. As the afternoon progressed, a significant portion of day-
timeframe traders – constrained by limited capital for overnight positions –
rushed to cover their shorts. Despite appearing weak throughout the session,
the market revealed its short inventory imbalance in I period, briefly
dipping below the half-level before buyers swiftly intervened (Figure 26.2).
Successful short-term trading is highly dependent upon paying attention to
the market. Had you not been paying close attention, it's unlikely that you
would have noticed the aggressiveness of the buying below half-back. I
continually advise traders to limit their focus to trading – and trading alone
– while the market is open.
Ordinarily, matching J and K lows might signal weak buying. In this
nuanced scenario, however, these matching lows likely resulted from
nervous shorts seeking an opportunity to cover. Failure to discern this
distinction could have led you to short the subsequent rally, exposing
yourself to potential losses.
This afternoon exemplifies the deceptive nature of markets and underscores
the importance of recognizing nuanced experiences in order to navigate
them effectively.
Figure 26.2 The Profile on the Afternoon of April 1, 2024
WHO'S IN CONTROL OF THE MARKET?
In every competitive endeavor, considerable time and effort are expended
on assessing the strengths and weaknesses of the competition. The better
you understand your adversaries, the higher your chances of success. Short-
term traders who overlook the competitive landscape put themselves at a
serious disadvantage.
Viewing the market through the lens of the daily bar unveils a telling
narrative. It appeared competitors were exhibiting a herd mentality,
mindlessly driving prices downwards. The distinctive “b” formation in
Figure 26.3 strongly suggested a surge in short-term selling activity. If there
had been a mix of selling timeframes in play, the Profile would likely have
displayed greater elongation.
Engage your imagination and contemplate the significance of a more
symmetrical Profile, versus an overly elongated one. A symmetrical Profile
would imply a diverse range of sellers across various timeframes,
highlighting the probability of continued downward pressure. Conversely,
an excessively elongated Profile would hint at emotionally driven selling,
leading to an unusually short inventory. Both the “b” formation and the
overly elongated Profile suggest accumulated short inventory.
Think of these Profiles like the tale of Goldilocks and the three bears: too
much, too little, just right.
To safeguard yourself from getting swept up in the herd – while
simultaneously leveraging your recognition that the herd is in motion – it's
essential to maintain a balanced perspective. This involves staying attuned
to market dynamics, but not blindly following the crowd.
An understanding of “too much, too little, and just right” can only be gained
through active experience, and you must constantly weigh these indicators
against overall market context. For example, these kinds of identifiers will
vary depending on if you're in a trending or rotational market and will also
be influenced by overall market volatility. While I don't particularly like the
VIX (CBOE volatility index), I pay attention to it relative to the discussion
above.
Up to this point we have used specific examples to demonstrate the
complexity of the market. In Chapter 27 we'll focus on references to
enhance your ability to identify whom you're competing against, and your
ability to gauge the strength or weakness of the current auction.
Figure 26.3 The Surge in Short-Term Selling Activity
In her book The Biggest Bluff, Maria Konnikova asked thousands of people
to play a simulated stock market game – with real financial rewards – as
part of her doctoral research at Columbia. What she found was completely
unexpected:
Over and over, people would overestimate the degree of control they had
over events—smart people, people who excelled at many things, people
who should have known better. Not only would they decide ahead of time
how they were going to divide their investments, but they would decide
based on incredibly limited information which stock was “good” and stick
to their guns – even as they started losing money. The more they
overestimated their own skill relative to luck, the less they learned from
what the environment was trying to tell them, and the worse their decisions
became: The participants grew increasingly less likely to switch to winning
stocks, instead doubling down on losers. Because they thought they knew
more than they did, they ignored any signs to the contrary – especially
when, as inevitably happens in real stock markets, winners became losers
and vice versa. In other words, the illusion of control is what prevented real
control from emerging – and before long, the quality of people's decisions
deteriorated. They did what worked in the past, or what they had decided
would work – and failed to grasp that the circumstances had shifted so that
a previously successful strategy was no longer so. People failed to see what
the world was telling them when that message wasn't one they wanted to
hear.
OceanofPDF.com
CHAPTER TWENTY-SEVEN
THE OPENING ENGAGEMENT STARTS
HERE
Welcome to the final chapters of our journey through the world of short-
term trading. We're now going to enter the dynamic arena where theory
meets practice: live trading. Here, the concepts we've explored come to life
as we immerse ourselves in the exhilarating and often unpredictable
landscape of the trading session.
This is where true learning begins, as engagement and participation provide
the fertile ground for honing skills, sharpening instincts, and navigating
shifting market currents. On this final leg of our journey, the art of trading
unfolds before our eyes.
I'm reminded of the quote from the philosopher Heraclitus: “You cannot
step into the same river twice.” This captures the ever-changing reality of
short-term trading, reminding us that we can't understand the totality of
something by limiting our attention to isolated portions.
Hector the Collector, toting years of useless baggage, won't survive this
kind of engagement with the market.
The following quote provides a crucial principle of short-term trading, and
it's where we'll begin our final journey.
In the long run, prioritization beats efficiency.
—James Clear, Atomic Habits
Remember this fundamental truth: Markets are inherently irregular. They
do not adhere to predictable patterns or logical sequences. This irregularity
– stemming from factors like inventory imbalances, unexpected earnings or
economic releases, unforeseen announcements, interpretations of Federal
Reserve statements deviating from expectations, and so forth – underscores
the need for adaptability and flexibility in our trading strategies.
Throughout the book, we have written about the power, peril, and potential
of habits. Now let's discuss how you can build positive habits. Initially, this
process is time-consuming. But as the habit forms, it will become more and
more comfortable, streamlined, informational, and ultimately rewarding.
The first step in developing this habit is to gain an objective perspective of
the market by reviewing monthly, weekly, and daily bars, and of course
daily Market Profiles. You want to first determine if the market is trending
or bracketing. All bars pointing in the same direction will confirm a fully
trending market.
Daily volatility often obscures broader market trends, leading to directional
uncertainty. Examining the monthly bar – followed by a detailed review of
the weekly bar – offers a more comprehensive perspective. In particular, the
weekly bar for March–April 2024 shown in Figure 27.1 reveals the market
transitioning into a short-term balance.
Another refresher: Markets rarely exhibit sudden, dramatic shifts in
direction. Instead, they tend to undergo a balancing process. In the above
scenario, the market remained in a state of balance for four weeks before
experiencing a directional shift manifested by a breakout from that balance.
Figure 27.1 The Weekly Bar Chart, March–April 2024
Frequently, the most significant opportunities for short-term traders arise
during these kinds of breakouts, which communicate a shift in market
sentiment. Being a successful short-term trader is difficult unless you
capitalize on a few larger opportunities.
The graphic in Figure 27.2 represents the daily bar chart for the four weeks
shown in the weekly bar chart in Figure 27.1.
When no direction appears in the daily bars, I recommend you come in and
go home flat (no position) each session. This allows you to maintain an
open mind and react to what the market presents during the following
session. Too often we get emotionally trapped by what we want or need to
happen, and we may get swayed by some expert or technician.
Figure 27.2 The Daily Bar Chart for the Four Weeks, March–April,
2024
When markets are balancing – establishing a trading range – more
information is required before embarking on the next directional auction.
We're again reminded that markets often defy prediction and logic, charting
their own course. This is compounded as the market seeks balance.
A vital component of the “good habit” we seek to develop is a mental
reminder of the importance of remaining adaptable, vigilant, and open to
the unforeseen. The force of habit is the tendency to do something so
frequently it becomes automatic.
CAPITALIZING ON A BREAKOUT (CHANGE
IN SENTIMENT)
As the market presents you with a potential breakout from balance,
remember the balance-trading guidelines:
1. Go with a breakout from balance.
2. Fade (go against) a breakout from balance that fails. On a breakout
failure, the market can reverse back to the opposite extreme.
The graphic in Figure 27.3 shows a successful breakout, which is often the
beginning of a trend. When a market is trending, it's seeking a new
equilibrium, or a level at which two-sided trade occurs. Trading is a
business. No business is successful unless two-sided trade is occurring.
Transitioning from the structured rhythm of preparation to the dynamic
world of execution is by far the most emotional and challenging time for
everyone. It's the moment when analysis, planning, preparation, and
anticipation converge into action.
Execution demands presence, adaptability, and discipline.
Whether I intend to act on the opening immediately or later in the session,
the period surrounding the market's opening is extremely informational; the
tone for the day is frequently foreshadowed during this initial phase.
The downside breakout shown in Figure 27.3 demonstrates the maximum
challenge facing short-term traders. The first exploration below the balance
attracted buyers, with the market opening back within the balance during
the following session.
Figure 27.3 Two-Sided Trading after Downside Breakout from Balance
NUANCE MATTERS
Note how the peak on April 12 in Figure 27.4 closely aligned with the half-
back of the previous trading session (indicated by arrow A). The precise
selling from this level strongly implies it was driven by participants who
had shorter timeframe horizons and weaker positions. It's improbable that
more seasoned or longer-term sellers would consider the midpoint of the
previous day. Executions such as selling here at precise levels resemble a
“tell” akin to poker, revealing your competitors' characteristics and
inclinations. Those with shorter horizons often display emotionally driven
herd behavior that tends toward extremes. In this instance, there's a
likelihood that these short-term traders (prone to extremes) will continue
selling until inventory becomes too short.
Figure 27.4 The Profile for April 12, 2024
On the surface this profile looks like a double distribution day. Let's dig
deeper into the nuances. A closer look at the Profile – spanning from H
period through the close in M period – indicates tightly clustered activity
resembling the letter “b” with the stem in periods A through G. Some of
you might say this is not the classic “b” shape, but remember trading is an
art. As you recall, this configuration strongly indicates long liquidation,
rather than a more forceful blend of long liquidation and new selling
activity. Once this pattern emerges, the likelihood of a short-covering rally
rises significantly.
The market opened sharply higher on the following session and
immediately sold off, confirming the downside breakout. (Often
inexperienced traders are misguided by overnight trade/overnight
inventory.) Understanding your competition and staying one step ahead are
part of the many unique challenges that short-term traders face. Once the
short inventory from the 12th was rebalanced, the downside breakout
continued, but prudent short-term traders would have covered their shorts
on that day (April 12). There was too much uncertainty to remain long in
the face of the short inventory.
Only with extensive experience can you begin to successfully operate in
this competitive, volatile environment.
Monitoring for continuation is a highly recommended practice once a trade
has been initiated – though many wonder exactly what that entails. The
answer to that question is “ongoing” as conditions continually change. In
the current example, however, if you were short on April 12, it would have
been prudent to cover positions as the prospects for continuation were
unfavorable.
A TREND IS IN MOTION
The breakout from balance signals the initiation of a downward trend. Once
a trend is established, the market is once again seeking balance, which
offers the greatest opportunity for two-way trade.
Given that each trader operates on a different timeframe, the interpretation
of what constitutes a trend varies widely. To add additional complexity,
countertrends can occur within longer-term trends, contributing to the
sustainability of the overarching trend.
The perception of “trend” depends on the trader.
During my daily preparation, I focus on both longer-term trends and the
subtler trends within them, including countertrends. The daily and weekly
bars are most relevant when identifying shorter-term trends.
Remember, we are in the process of crafting a powerful habit. Stay mindful
of the journey as we delve into specifics. The goal is to build a routine that
not only sharpens your trading skills but nurtures your growth as a trader.
Think of it as developing stepping stones toward your successful future.
BALANCING FOR ALL TIMEFRAMES
Earlier, we approached balance from a longer-timeframe perspective. Like
so many of the concepts we've discussed, “balance” is applicable from the
shortest to the longest timeframes. My shortest timeframe begins with a 30-
minute inside bar, followed by two or more overlapping bars. As you can
imagine, an inside day (trading entirely within the previous day's range) is a
slightly longer period of balance.
Balance can continue with multiple overlapping days, weeks, or even
months. Inside weeks or months of course also represent balance of a
longer-term nature. The importance of focusing on balance is that an exit
from balance indicates a change in market tenor.
There is no opportunity unless change is occurring.
While everything must be viewed within context, and recognizing that
trading is more art than science, the overall guidelines remain: Go with a
breakout from balance and fade a failed breakout.
Balance also plays a significant role when we're monitoring for
continuation, as the market seeks the range where the greatest amount of
two-sided trade can occur. If I have been in a directional trade and the
market begins to balance, I will strongly consider flattening my position.
As we complete this trading session, the important observations to ponder
are the formation of balance areas and identifying when the market is
exiting from balance, which indicates change – where opportunity hides.
MARKETS ALWAYS HANDLE CURRENT
BUSINESS FIRST
In this section, we'll review the impact that economic releases and other
announcements – along with overnight inventory – can have on price.
First, let's consider the implications of economic releases. Over the years I
have consistently advised clients to be prepared for all scheduled releases,
knowing exactly when they're to be announced. I also advise against
reading these releases. Similar to reading a prospectus or offering circular,
the really relevant information is often buried in a footnote. In economic
releases and other such announcements, it's often either the revision to the
prior report or a component of the release that proves to be most significant.
Many inexperienced traders read only the headline, increasing the odds that
they're operating on insufficient information. Temporary distortions are
often created as shorter-term traders tend to act first and think later. These
emotional reactions often lead to sharply over- or under-priced moments.
Approximately 75% of the time, there's a counter-auction, or partial
counter-auction, relative to overnight inventory. We measure overnight
inventory relative to the settle (the official price published by the
exchange). It's not uncommon for overnight trade to continue in the
direction last witnessed during NYSE trading hours if you're considering
the equity indices. It is far more difficult to make this assessment relative to
other markets.
When I initially introduced this concept and its relevance to day-timeframe
trading, it faced criticism from larger professional traders who argued that
overnight volume wasn't sufficient to merit attention. However, this
skepticism precisely underscores the importance of the issue: Roughly 75%
of the time, overnight moves lack substantial volume support, leading to a
counter-auction.
One of the most common mistakes made by short-term traders is
misinterpreting this counter-auction as indicative of a more enduring
directional move. An example of this is when overnight inventory is heavily
long and there's an immediate liquidation when the market opens. However,
the selling pressure is quickly rebuffed and the market rallies for the
remainder of the session.
EARLY TRADE/OVERNIGHT INVENTORY
I have often heard educators and advisors tell traders not to engage the
market during the first hour. This is poor advice as a blanket statement.
What occurs during the opening minutes often sets the tone for the
remainder of the day.
I'm frequently asked, “How do you know if this is going to be a trend day?”
You don't. However, early trade often alerts you to the possibility – if it's
going to be a trend day, market confidence is usually high from the opening.
How the market reacts to overnight inventory often sets the stage for the
day. For example, earlier we observed that approximately 75% of the time
there's a counter-auction relative to overnight inventory. If there is no
counter-auction, the odds are high that the market will continue in the
direction of overnight trade.
For example, if overnight inventory is long and there's no counter-auction
or correction, the odds favor a strong market to the upside. Likewise, if
overnight inventory is short and there is no counter-auction, the odds favor
a strong day to the downside. In both examples, trend days are more likely.
But it's rarely that simple. Constantly remain aware of other expected
announcements or events.
If there are high-odds counter-auctions, the outcomes tend to be more
varied. Additionally, where the market opens can be revealing. For example,
if the market opens approximately centered in the previous day's range,
there is no meaningful change. Under these circumstances, market chop is
highly likely. A prudent trader will patiently wait for a clearer opportunity.
Getting “caught in the chop” often leads to the loss of both psychological
and financial capital.
Psychological capital can be the most expensive.
WHAT IS THE MARKET ATTEMPTING TO
DO?
The Market Profile, as a distribution curve, serves as a fundamental tool in
organizing the continuous two-way auction process of the market,
facilitating our visualization of its ever-changing dynamics. At its core lies
the concept of value. Value encapsulates roughly one standard deviation, or
about 70% of the day's activity. Focusing on developing value empowers us
to monitor the evolving market more effectively.
Within the constant maze of auctions and counter-auctions, vigilant
monitoring of developing value assists us in pinpointing the most probable
market direction for the day.
Monitoring for continuation requires a closer look at developing value. For
example, an overly elongated Profile suggests highly emotional activity; a
truncated Profile demonstrates a low level of interest. Or like Goldilocks
and the three bears, activity may be just right. It is only through extended
experience that the significance of this paragraph becomes appreciated. This
is what engagement is about.
Volume – which measures the success or failure of market activity – is also
relevant. Higher prices on decreasing volume reduce the odds of
continuation, as higher prices on increasing volume increase the odds of
continuation.
(As you gain experience, you'll understand that this is more complex than
stated.)
MORE NUANCES
We're going to cover one more major topic that helps isolate who we're
competing against during any given period.
Though first, let's acknowledge that the reality of successful trading remains
in the distance for most. In endeavors marked by intense competition and
demanding performance standards, the guidance provided in “how-to”
books merely scratches the surface. These resources can serve as a gateway
to the subject matter, rewarding a nascent interest, but mastery and true
understanding can only be achieved through sustained dedication and
hands-on experience.
Deeper exploration into any highly competitive domain reveals a world rich
with subtleties and complexities that go far beyond the scope of
instructional texts. These subtleties are often elusive, requiring a “nuanced”
understanding that can only be cultivated through immersive engagement
and continuous learning.
While books offer fundamental principles and techniques, they fail to
capture the intricacies of real-world application and the dynamic nature of
competitive environments. It is only through a commitment to ongoing
refinement that you can begin to grasp the finer points that separate
dreamers from consistently successful traders.
Mastery in such endeavors is not simply about following a set of prescribed
steps outlined in a book; it's about developing a profound understanding of
the underlying principles in play, honing one's skill through relentless
practice, and adapting to the ever-evolving challenges that define the
competitive landscape. It's a layer-by-layer experience where losses and
successes contribute to the depth of your expertise.
COMPETITORS
My understanding of the importance of identifying your competition was
initially sparked during my time on the floor of the Chicago Board of Trade.
There, I observed the origins of large trading desk orders, often
communicated through hand signals. While orders from retail firms
typically garnered minimal attention, those from heavyweights like
Goldman Sachs commanded substantial interest.
Transitioning away from the trading floor provided me with a new
perspective. Major institutional investment firms frequently circulated
orders among various entries. If the order was shared with multiple firms,
those left out quickly figured it out and anticipated its impact during the
session. I recall observing a savvy institutional trading manager who,
realizing he wouldn't receive the shared order, instructed his desk to
purchase assets he knew would be in demand once the shared order entered
the market.
Understanding the source and timing of business flows remains crucial.
Broadly, I aim to discern whether orders primarily originate from
institutions or individuals. Institutions typically exhibit greater patience and
endurance, with their orders unfolding gradually, making them less likely to
prompt immediate responses. The gradualness of institutional order flow
can last for extensive periods. Conversely, individual orders are more
susceptible to emotional influences and rapid reversals.
Knowing the difference is crucial to your chances of success.
DISTINGUISHING BETWEEN COMPETITORS
I categorized competitors based on two main criteria. First, when trading
activity remains concentrated around precise levels – such as the previous
day's high or low, the opening price, half-back from the previous day or
overnight, and half-back of 30-minute bars – it's likely driven by short-term
traders. In such cases, detailed analysis often ends there.
Conversely, when the aforementioned levels are largely overlooked, it
indicates engagement with longer timeframes.
Few short-term or day-timeframe traders recognize the significance of this
distinction. Can you imagine playing a tennis match and not observing if
your opponent is left- or right-handed?
OceanofPDF.com
CHAPTER TWENTY-EIGHT
THE POWER OF A WELL-KEPT JOURNAL
When I was introduced to the Market Profile as an organizing tool, it
opened my mind to how markets distribute bids and offers via a continuous
two-way auction process. But the introduction also included what I consider
to be the most important formula for successful trading:
Market Understanding + Self Understanding + Strategy = Success
An improved understanding of the markets was almost immediate – but that
improvement was not correlated with financial success, and I continued to
slide backward. As I have frequently shared in my ongoing educational
programs, I was unprofitable as a trader for more than 20 years.
Market understanding that is not accompanied by an advancement in
understanding the self does not lead to profitability. Self-understanding can
be brutal, as we're forced to confront how we really act, as opposed to the
mental picture we create of ourselves.
To get past the hurdle of self-delusion, you must embrace the habit of
journaling, exposing your innermost thoughts, fears, and selfish urges,
recording them along with your trading decisions to begin to rub away at
the fogged window of self-understanding. Journaling by itself won't
enhance your trading, but it is a starting point for recognizing your
emotional traps and deeply ingrained biases.
That's when the real work begins.
If you're considering journaling, it's worth reflecting on some of the insights
I've shared earlier in this book. Many traders have undergone educational
programs emphasizing reversion-to-the-mean trades. However, my
observations over the years suggest that markets move too swiftly for this
strategy to reliably succeed.
Similarly, strategies relying on confirmation tend to be unproductive due to
market pace. Roughly 15% of trading days exhibit strong trends, making
the concept of “waiting for confirmation” extremely challenging. Success
as a short-term trader often depends on capturing a high percentage of these
trend days.
Surprisingly, Tom Hougaard's book Best Loser Wins revealed that short-
term traders have more winning than losing trades. But here's the rub: The
average win is smaller than the average loss. It's vital to track your ability to
let profits run and examine whether emotions are influencing your
decisions. We've noticed a strong tendency among unsuccessful traders to
take profits too early.
Can you recognize when the odds suggest that market inventory has
become dangerously too long or too short?
Can you resist the temptation to listen to market commentators, and instead
act on market-generated information? Listening to these “experts” often
introduces cognitive dissonance, clouding your judgment and hindering
short-term trading decisions.
YOU ARE YOUR MARKET
The most important market day traders need to understand is themselves.
Each trader must design a journal process that is consistent with their
personal makeup. The items I consider most essential are:
Emotional control: Can you manage emotions like fear, greed, and
frustration to avoid impulsive trading?
Risk tolerance: How comfortable are you with potential losses? Are
you prone to fear of missing out (FOMO) or fear of losing? (I suspect
this is the biggest issue.)
Discipline: Can you enter and exit positions even when emotions are
high?
Analytical skills: Have you properly prepared, so you're able to make
adjustments under pressure?
Decision-making: Can you think clearly under pressure and make
quick, informed decisions?
The challenge before you is to answer these questions – thoroughly and
honestly – and use those insights to design your own personal process, so
you can avoid the constant pitfalls of wishful thinking and risk aversion and
a dozen other perils in order to be fully present for what is actually
happening in the unfolding complexity of the market.
JOURNALING IS PREPARATION
“Journaling” and “preparation” might appear to be separate endeavors, but
they're part of the same holistic process of developing a positive, productive
practice. Carefully noting circumstances and emotional states experienced
before, during, and after every trade will help you see patterns, so you can
better focus your attention and improve your odds of success.
When you write something down, you are telling a story. And the story you
tell exerts a powerful influence on your decision-making systems. If you
follow a regular process of recording the truth of your immediate
experience, you can begin to avoid being unduly swayed by opinions
influenced by emotions.
Create a new routine and record your preparation methods and mental states
before the market opens. Hold yourself accountable. Pay close attention and
you will learn to avoid common biases like confusing short-term trading
with investing. When you record your objectives, time horizon, and
strategies, your habits will come into clearer focus, empowering you to
avoid traps like FOMO. When do you tend to be susceptible to these
feelings? How do they influence your trading? How do you respond
emotionally when you miss a big move?
Observe your emotions as you trade. Investigate how your ability to reason
gets hampered by feelings. Pay attention to how pundits, “experts,” and
news can disrupt your trading strategy.
Recognizing emotional impulses helps you avoid throwing good money
after bad.
Trading during volatile periods is a challenge for even the most emotionally
mature traders. Many of the most successful discretionary traders I've come
to know have no problem stepping aside when volatility results in
emotional turmoil. Let the market clarify itself before you resume trading to
avoid the loss of financial capital, and perhaps more importantly, to
minimize the loss of emotional capital, which can be crippling.
Don't give up on preparation when the results aren't immediately apparent.
Do the work, be patient, and in time you will see results. As we quoted
earlier, “Our biggest weakness is not recognizing our own weakness.”
Keeping a detailed trade journal will help you minimize the inevitable
shortcomings that everyone suffers, now and then.
In closing, I'm pleased to share some final thoughts from Brett Steenbarger,
a clinical psychologist and trader who has published numerous articles and
books on trading psychology, whose counsel and friendship have been
invaluable through the years.
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF KEEPING TRADING
JOURNALS
Brett Steenbarger
What is the essential function of a trading journal? No, it's not to vent
frustrated emotions, and it's also not to passively record P/L and actions
taken during the day, week, or month.
At its best, a trading journal is a way of talking to yourself. It's a means
for you, the observer, to talk with you, the trader. In a very real sense,
we are our own trading analysts. We are always talking to ourselves.
The question is whether we're truly providing actionable information
with our self-talk. Trading journals turn routine self-talk into
constructive talk.
The opposite of trading reactively and emotionally is trading
consciously, with full awareness of what we're doing and why we're
doing it. Good trading is necessarily mindful trading and purposeful
trading. When we talk to ourselves constructively, we focus ourselves
on opportunity and purpose. In that sense, trading journals guide our
self-awareness.
We can identify two purposes for trading journals: previewing and
reviewing.
Previewing
Previewing represents our preparation for upcoming trading. We scan
charts and displays of information, such as the Market Profile. We read
research reports, track breaking news, and speak with knowledgeable
colleagues. We conduct studies of relevant market history and
investigate how markets related to ours are behaving and why. We
analyze and analyze and we draw upon the trading journal to collect our
thoughts and also to think about our thinking. Psychologists call this
“metacognition.”
As we collect pieces of the market puzzle, we start to assemble those
pieces to detect a larger picture. The role of the trading journal is to
collect all our puzzle pieces, so that we can make sense of what is going
on. This is the essence of what portfolio managers call “idea
generation,” and it's a fundamentally creative process. We can't hope to
hold all information in our minds all the time. The trading journal
collects our thoughts and observations so that we can begin the process
of metacognition. It is a way we brainstorm and generate fresh market
and trading perspectives.
Why is this important?
If we don't generate fresh market perspectives, we are going to be
locked into consensus thinking. So often, profitability is found in
detecting where the herd is wrong. The trading journal previews
markets so that we can generate ideas that differentiate us from the
crowd.
We sometimes hear that success in trading is all about maintaining a
positive mindset. That is only partly true. Without unique, differentiated
ideas, there can be no distinguished returns. Mindset is necessary to
success in performance endeavors, but it is never sufficient. When we
use a trading journal to preview the trading day or week and identify
fresh opportunity, we actually help to create a constructive, positive
mindset.
But there is a second function of trading journals. We can use journals
not only to preview opportunity, but to review performance.
Reviewing
When we journal about our trading performance, we make detailed
observations of what we did well and what we could have done better.
These observations form the basis for very specific trading goals. Our
goals can be to repeat and expand what we have done well, and our
goals can be to improve what we didn't do well. In review mode, the
trading journal is a framework for self-observation. It is a mirror for
viewing all that we've done, so that we can approach future trading
purposefully.
Effective trading journals that review performance don't stop at setting
goals. Rather, they translate goals into specific plans for improvement.
Perhaps I sized a position too large due to an overconfidence bias. My
goal is to make sure I size positions in line with my risk objectives. My
plans for doing so involve following specific formulas that translate
how much I'm willing to bet on ideas into proper trade sizes based upon
the volatility of the instrument I'm trading, the correlation of the trade
with other positions I may have on, and where I set a rational stop level
for the trade.
In many cases, the plan that emerges from our trading journal's
observations and goals is a process. We create robust processes that can
be internalized as positive habit patterns – and that drive ever-
improving results.
Reviewing performance, setting goals and plans, and implementing our
changes going forward are known in psychology as deliberate practice.
A wealth of research in psychology shows us that there is a very close
relationship between the consistency of our deliberate practice and the
acquisition of expert performance. The trading journal structures our
observations of ourselves and helps us translate those observations into
purposeful improvement.
We started by observing that trading journals are structured methods for
talking to ourselves. In preview mode, journals focus our attention on
market-related information and prepare us for unique trading
opportunities. In review mode, journals help us examine ourselves and
learn from both our strengths and our vulnerabilities.
Successful traders are always working on market understanding.
Successful traders are always working on themselves.
Take a look at your trading journal. Are you finding unique
opportunities? Are you developing yourself uniquely? Would you hire a
trader who came to an interview with your trading journal?
Effective trading journals reveal you at your best. Novelist-philosopher
Ayn Rand observed that anyone who fights for tomorrow lives in it
today. Your journal helps you live in your future.
Many of the things you can count, don't count. Many of the things you
can't count, really count.
—Albert Einstein
OceanofPDF.com
CHAPTER TWENTY-NINE
THAT'S A WRAP
This is being written on May 15, 2024, following an extremely volatile
market on May 14, which was a whipsaw nightmare for novices and a
blessing for experienced traders. This chapter wasn't part of the original
plan, but the 14th presented an ideal opportunity to weave together key
themes, including tempo as a “tell.” In poker, a tell refers to a shift in a
player's behavior or demeanor that can hint at the strength or weakness of
their hand.
Those skilled at reading tells can gain a considerable advantage.
In this final chapter, we introduce the concept of “tempo” as a tell. The
tempo observed on the afternoon of the 14th alerted us to the possibility of
a short-covering rally. Tempo – akin to rhythm in music – serves as a subtle
yet potent indicator in navigating intricate market dynamics.
The graphic in Figure 29.1 allows you to examine May 14, including
overnight trade leading up to the NYSE opening. This activity is important
because it allows you to view the reaction to the producer price index (PPI)
an hour prior to the NYSE opening. The PPI is used to measure the average
change in U.S. wholesale prices. Its relevance on the 14th was related to the
market's obsessive focus on the Federal Reserve's future rate-setting policy.
Figure 29.1 The Profile for May 14, 2024
Earlier in the book, we suggested that you not read scheduled economic
announcements, but rather observe the market's reaction to them. Our
reasoning was that most of us are not equipped to fully appreciate the
nuances of these types of announcements. Short-term traders tend to react
to the headline in a herd-like fashion, without appreciating revisions to
previous announcements or components of the release.
In the announcement on the 14th, overnight trade incorporated a sharp spike
lower as traders reacted to the headline. The rapid recovery resulted from
more experienced traders reacting to more important components of the
release.
Throughout the book, we have continually stressed the importance of
understanding short-term inventory conditions in order to be a competitive,
profitable short-term trader. Following the PPI release, a herd-like reaction
to the headline led to extremely short, short-term inventory. This is visible
in the sharp downward move in Figure 29.1.
Short covering and momentum buying continued through the early high in
the B period. B, C, D, E, F, G, and H periods saw consistent selling.
Inventory had gone from too short to too long and was in the process of
becoming too short. Your question should have been: How can you
determine that it was becoming too short?
Tempo, or “pace” on the downside, was extremely slow. Tempo is an
extremely advanced concept. Tempo with the trend (the long-term trend
we're discussing is clearly higher) and tempo against the trend can be
significantly different.
Upward tempo with the trend is not as telling as tempo against the
trend.
This statement is extremely complex and can only be understood after you
have amassed considerable experience and observation. Your tendency
might now be to look for tempo everywhere; introducing this concept might
initially hamper your trading. Its usefulness is selective – when it's relevant,
it will separate you from the herd.
In Figure 29.1, the narrowness of the range in the F, G, and H periods also
signaled that the market was experiencing difficulty as it attempted to trade
lower. This is obvious when you view it after the fact, but it was far more
challenging in real time; for approximately 90 minutes, you witnessed the
market continually trade lower.
The short-covering rally was equally challenging, as the market initially
ground higher. Many traders sold into the rally, further exacerbating the
short inventory. Unless you understood the initial short inventory, you could
have easily fallen into the same trap. The new shorts were fueling the rally.
FINAL THOUGHTS
Throughout this book, we have delved into the essential market components
of time, price, and volume, integrating them with insights into the many
ways our biases, hopes, and fears influence our ability to make clear-headed
decisions. The Market Profile offers a framework for assessing the
complexities of market movements, providing an objective mechanism for
interpreting market-generated information – your clearest window into what
is actually happening in the present tense.
Your journey as a trader is just beginning – is always just beginning. This
book was written as a foundational text, a starting point from which
continuous learning and adaptation will take you on a journey uniquely
your own. Markets evolve, technologies advance, and human behaviors
shift; so too must your understanding and strategy.
Remember, the greatest barrier to success in trading, as in all areas of life, is
ourselves. The challenge lies not only in mastering the market but in
mastering the self. The journey toward self-mastery is ongoing, requiring
persistence, patience, and presence.
If you take away one thing, let it be this: engage deeply, not just with the
markets, but with your own patterns of thought and reaction. Recognize that
each trading decision is a moment of self-revelation, an opportunity to learn
more about the complexities of both the markets and your psyche.
I invite you to revisit the chapters, reflect on the lessons, and continue to
write in the empty pages provided – not just to record strategies, but to
document your evolving understanding and emotional responses. This book
is designed not merely to be read, but to be used as a tool for continuous
reflection and growth.
Thank you for joining me on this exploration of markets and the mind. May
your trading journey be as rewarding intellectually and emotionally as it is
financially. Take charge of your fate through awareness, analysis, and
mindful action in the markets… and beyond.
The past perpetuates itself through lack of presence. The quality of your
consciousness at this moment is what shapes the future.
—Eckhart Tolle, The Power of Now
OceanofPDF.com
APPENDIX A
REFERENCE DEFINITIONS
In Chapter 21, we discussed explicit and implicit learning. Defining market
reference points falls under the realm of explicit learning, while
understanding their implications constitutes implicit learning. Refining your
implicit skills – which are crucial for success – requires that you
continuously refine your ability to observe market dynamics around these
key benchmarks, enhancing your analytical powers, and developing a better
understanding of your competition.
Many of these reference points serve as psychological markers that guide
trading decisions. When these anchors consistently draw attention, it
suggests a prevalence of short-term competition. Conversely, when these
references hold minimal significance, it often indicates a broader, longer-
term trading environment.
Of course exceptions exist. For instance, when inventory reaches extremes
– either excessively long or short – these extremes can trigger short
covering or long liquidation. Traders commonly misinterpret this activity,
attributing it to longer timeframes.
Here is a list of some of the more notable short-term references I've
observed; those marked with an asterisk (*) are unique to my observations
over the years.
Daily half-back: Dynamic, as it will change with the market.
Excess high or low: Identifiable in the form of at least two single
prints.
Half-back from the prior 30-minute bar and current 30-minute
bar*: When it is obvious that traders are using this reference to make
buy/sell decisions, it alerts us to the odds that this action is the result of
the shortest of timeframes. While price may continue directionally, the
odds of retracement are also increasing, as the shorter timeframes have
less staying power.
Last: The exchange officially establishes the last trade of the session.
Late afternoon pullback low on an upward trend day*: Remaining
above this level in the following session implies that no meaningful
change has occurred. Acceptance below the late afternoon pullback
low in the following session indicates change is occurring.
Late afternoon rally high on a downward trend day*: Mirror image
of the above.
A Nuance*: A high or low could be both an excess high (single prints)
and a weak high (within a single tick of a nearby previous mechanical
reference).
Overnight half-back: Static.
Overnight high or low: Assists in recognizing change relative to
overnight trade.
Point of Control (POC): The fairest price at which trade is being
conducted, which assists in recognizing subtle market movements.
Poor high or low: No excess or single prints indicates low odds that
this high/low will endure, indicating higher odds that it will be
revisited.
Previous day's high or low: Helps you recognize change (or lack of
change).
Settle: The official price set by the exchange at the end of each session
– not necessarily the close. It is from this reference that change is
measured in future sessions.
Weak high or low*: Determined as “weak” because it is within a
single tick of a recent identifiable reference, for example, the previous
day's high or low, overnight high or low, or any obvious recent
mechanical reference.
This list is not meant to be all-inclusive. Learning to recognize these
references is explicit. When you begin to grasp their relevance, implicit
learning is involved.
OceanofPDF.com
APPENDIX B
READING LIST
I'm a heavy reader, and over the years I've encountered several books that
served as signposts on the road to developing my skills as a human being
and a trader. The following synopses briefly highlight the gist of the books
I've found most meaningful for developing self-awareness.
With the exception of Grit, I believe these books require multiple readings.
I, for one, wasn't able to understand the real depth with a single read. Each
time through developed a conceptual layer that allowed me to recognize
more relevant information that I was able to put to use.
Like all things worthwhile, it's a process.
THE ART OF LEARNING BY JOSH WAITZKIN
This remarkable book follows the author's journey from chess prodigy to
martial arts champion, exploring his insights into how best to master any
skill. Waitzkin discusses the importance of deliberate practice, the role of
resilience in the face of setbacks, and the need for adaptability. The book
offers valuable strategies for continuous improvement and personal growth.
THE POWER OF HABIT BY CHARLES
DUHIGG
This insightful volume explores the science behind habits and how they can
be transformed. Duhigg delves into the neurological and psychological
mechanisms that shape habits, both individual and collective. He presents
real-life examples, from personal routines to organizational behaviors,
demonstrating how habits can be changed to achieve positive outcomes.
The book provides practical insights on harnessing the power of habits for
personal and professional growth, emphasizing the role of cues, routines,
and rewards in shaping behavior.
ATOMIC HABITS BY JAMES CLEAR
This best-seller delves into the transformative impact of small habits. Clear
explores the concept of atomic habits, “tiny changes with remarkable
results,” and highlights the compound effect of consistent actions. The book
emphasizes the role of identity in habit formation and offers practical
strategies for breaking bad habits and building positive ones. Clear's
approach focuses on the power of marginal gains, encouraging readers to
make small adjustments to create significant, lasting change in their lives.
INCOGNITO: THE SECRET LIVES OF THE
BRAIN BY DAVID EAGLEMAN
Incognito delves into the mysteries of consciousness. Eagleman explores
how our brains work beneath the surface, highlighting the vast amount of
processing that occurs unconsciously. He discusses the complexities of
perception, decision-making, and behavior, and how these processes shape
our everyday lives. The book provides a fascinating journey into the hidden
workings of the mind and challenges our understanding of who we are and
how we perceive the world around us.
GRIT: THE POWER OF PASSION AND
PERSEVERANCE BY ANGELA DUCKWORTH
Duckworth's book explores the concept of grit, which she defines as a
combination of passion and perseverance in the pursuit of long-term goals.
She argues that talent alone is not the primary predictor of success; instead,
it's one's ability to stick with and work relentlessly toward objectives that
matter most. She draws on her research in psychology and real-world
examples to demonstrate how grit can be cultivated, and how it plays a
crucial role in achieving success in various fields – from education to
business and sports. The book offers insights and practical advice on how
you can develop your grit and work toward achieving your ambitions.
THE BIGGEST BLUFF BY MARIA
KONNIKOVA
A captivating exploration of the world of high-stakes poker and the lessons
it can teach about decision-making, probability, and psychology.
Konnikova, a psychologist and writer, immerses herself in the world of
professional poker, learning from masters of the game like Erik Seidel.
Through her experiences, she delves into the intricacies of risk-taking,
emotional control, and the balance between skill and chance. The book
offers insights into human behavior and the power of strategic thinking,
both at the poker table and in everyday life.
GUT FEELINGS: THE INTELLIGENCE OF THE
UNCONSCIOUS BY GERD GIGERENZER
This book explores the idea that our intuition, or “gut feeling,” is a valuable
form of decision-making that relies on our brain's ability to process
information quickly and efficiently. Gigerenzer argues that, in many
situations, relying on simple rules of thumb and heuristics can lead to better
decisions than overthinking or relying on complex analytical reasoning. The
book explores real-world examples and research findings to demonstrate
how our intuitive judgments can be surprisingly accurate and beneficial.
Gigerenzer's book also makes the point that it's a mistake to compare the
mind to a computer; the brain has more and different computing power (for
now). One salient example is “the gaze heuristic,” which is used in
directing motion to achieve a goal using a single variable. For example,
when a baseball is hit high in the air, the computer power necessary to
compute where the ball will land won't be complete before the ball hits the
ground. However, an outfielder using the gaze heuristic simply focuses on
the ball and adjusts his running speed – a totally different capability.
A similar dynamic occurs when attempting to assess the speed of the
market, often referred to as “tempo.” Tempo is almost impossible to teach;
it must be learned in the same way an outfielder learns to catch a fly ball.
This simple example helped me appreciate the potential of intuition to be a
vital factor in successful trading.
THE DAILY TRADING COACH: 101 LESSONS
FOR BECOMING YOUR OWN TRADING
PSYCHOLOGIST BY BRETT N.
STEENBARGER
This book provides traders with researched-backed methods for coaching
themselves to better trading performance. Steenbarger is both a clinical
psychologist and a trader, and he integrates both skills in a versatile reading
experience that allows readers to explore in a non-linear fashion. This
unique approach enhances the book's accessibility and ensures that readers
can delve into the topics that interest them most. Practical reinforcing
exercises accompany each lesson, adding to the book's compelling utility.
The cost of individual professional support is prohibitive for many traders,
and this book provides a self-guided path toward self-improvement.
OceanofPDF.com
APPENDIX C
JIM DALTON TRADING
Visit our website at jimdaltontrading.com to learn about our signature
eCourses, access recordings of our public webinars, and discover more
book recommendations. The goal of our educational offerings is to help you
become a better trader by teaching you how to:
Begin with a top-down approach to improve short-term trading results.
Read and interpret the daily two-way continuous auction via the
Market Profile.
Hone your intuition – a must for proficient and expert-level traders.
Understand and use cognitive dissonance to your advantage.
Use repetition to your advantage – important for acquiring any skill.
Understand the difference between developed and anchor trades.
Recognize anomalies and understand their significance.
Understand the importance of tempo for advanced traders.
Recognize the signs of markets that are getting too long or too short.
Understand odds, and more importantly, how to think in terms of odds.
Understand the importance of what does not occur.
Monitor trades for continuation.
Let the trade come to you instead of actively seeking it out.
FOUNDATION AND APPLICATION OF THE
MARKET PROFILE eCOURSE
This 11.5 hour eCourse is designed to help you absorb information by
seeing it many times, offering the opportunity to play and replay key
lessons, observing again and again the context and nuances that can help
you trade with less risk.
The first few lessons of this comprehensive eCourse will teach you the
basics of understanding the Market Profile, which is as “linear” as we'll get.
From there, we'll narrate a variety of real trading days, so you can begin to
recognize how the pieces fit together and identify salient Profile
configurations: Inside, Rotational, Trend, and Hybrid. We'll also introduce
you to “chunking,” a proven way to recognize opportunities faster.
Chunking is what enables you to back your car out of your garage, walk
downstairs, and read a map without having to think about it. In addition to
ongoing commentary, there are quizzes to help measure your progress.
As you progress through the eCourse, you'll witness Jim narrating a variety
of different trading days in detail as he explains the evolving circumstances
of each session. We teach you how to see – what to look for in the market's
evolving structure. And more importantly, we help you recognize how the
pieces fit together to enable trading with better odds of success.
https://jimdaltontrading.com/product/foundation-course/
ADVANCED NUANCES AND EXCEPTIONS
ECOURSE
Advanced Nuances and Exceptions eCourse is for traders who have a solid
foundation and understanding of Market Profile and the concepts that Jim
teaches, and are looking to fine tune their trading and understand the market
nuances, situations and the gotcha moments that are a MUST for any
successful trader. This 13-hour eCourse will help you stretch your
imagination and guide you in making randomness work for you, aid in
helping you understand the market beyond structure, and how context and
the interaction of tempo, liquidation, excess, value, and other factors give
you clues and an edge in your trading.
https://jimdaltontrading.com/product/advanced-nuances-and-exceptions/
OceanofPDF.com
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
To my son, Rob Dalton: Once again, your gift for communication has
elevated our third collaborative endeavor to new heights. Your mastery of
language and creativity has allowed me to share my experience with depth,
clarity, and emotion. Just as trading is an art, so too is communication. Your
nuanced artistic touch has made this book truly special. Thank you for your
invaluable contribution.
Beyond helping me express my life's work in this book, Rob has had a
successful career as a journalist, writer, and creative director, crafting
keynote videos for Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella; helping Starbucks evolve
its sustainability story; directing the campaign that made the Boeing 777X
the most successful launch in commercial aviation history; writing speeches
for executives at Holland America Line, Boeing, NetApp, and Microsoft;
building brands for start-ups ranging from climate tech to holographic
education; and crafting narratives for organizations like TEDx, the UNDP,
and myriad local nonprofits dedicated to improving the world, one story at a
time.
Rob can be reached at robertbevandalton@gmail.com.
WindoTrader Corporation and ThinkorSwim (Schwab) for the majority of
the charts presented in this book.
CBOT Market Profile, Market Profile is a registered trademark of the
Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT), which holds exclusive copyright to the
Market Profile graphics. Nothing herein should be considered as a trading
recommendation of the Chicago Board of Trade. The views expressed in
this publication are exclusively those of Jim Dalton Trading LLC.
OceanofPDF.com
ABOUT THE AUTHORS
James Dalton is the founder of Jim Dalton Trading and its predecessor,
JDalton Trading. He has more than five decades of experience, including
memberships on the Chicago Board of Trade and Chicago Board Options
Exchange, where he served as Senior Executive Vice President during its
formative years. In the latter part of his markets journey, Jim rejoined UBS
Financial Services as Director of Hedge Fund Research – one of the
highlights of his career.
Jim's previous two books (Mind Over Markets and Markets in Profile),
written with co-authors Robert B. Dalton and Eric T. Jones, are credited
with being peerless in advancing the concepts encompassed by the Market
Profile, a powerful tool for organizing time, price, and volume. Over the
past three decades, Jim has established himself as an empathetic teacher to
individuals and institutions. While many teach trading, Jim's constant
refrain is unique: “The most important market you'll trade is yourself – self-
understanding is just as important as market understanding.”
This book represents the culmination of Jim's teaching and experience.
Anyone who has followed him over the years will quickly realize that Jim
has continued to advance his teaching methods; he has learned as much
from his students as they have learned from him.
The exclamation “Oorah” was initially associated with Jim's time in the
Marine Corps. Today, “Oorah” represents Jim's feelings about this book, his
legacy.
Rob Dalton has been a journalist, screenwriter, poet, creative director, and
author – each role an embodiment of his ability to build consensus and
discover the true heart of the story. Leading by example, Rob engages
clients, colleagues, and creative teams in a joyful collaborative exchange
that generates powerful ideas to establish meaningful, actionable
connections. He lives on Bainbridge Island in the great Pacific Northwest
with his wife and a dog named George Bailey. His finest creations are his
two children (who can already write better than he can).
OceanofPDF.com
WILEY END USER LICENSE AGREEMENT
Go to www.wiley.com/go/eula to access Wiley’s ebook EULA.
OceanofPDF.com