
P1: OTA/XYZ P2: ABC
JWBT634-fm JWBT634-Grimes May 11, 2012 8:28 Printer: Hamilton Printing
The Art and
Science of
Technical
Analysis
P1: OTA/XYZ P2: ABC
JWBT634-fm JWBT634-Grimes May 11, 2012 8:28 Printer: Hamilton Printing
Founded in 1807, John Wiley & Sons is the oldest independent publishing company in the
United States. With ofﬁces in North America, Europe, Australia, and Asia, Wiley is glob-
ally committed to developing and marketing print and electronic products and services
for our customers’ professional and personal knowledge and understanding.
The Wiley Trading series features books by traders who have survived the mar-
ket’s ever changing temperament and have prospered—some by reinventing systems,
others by getting back to basics. Whether a novice trader, professional, or somewhere
in-between, these books will provide the advice and strategies needed to prosper today
and well into the future.
For a list of available titles, please visit our Web site at www.WileyFinance.com.
P1: OTA/XYZ P2: ABC
JWBT634-fm JWBT634-Grimes May 11, 2012 8:28 Printer: Hamilton Printing
The Art and
Science of
Technical
Analysis
Market Structure, Price Action,
and Trading Strategies
ADAM GRIMES
John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
P1: OTA/XYZ P2: ABC
JWBT634-fm JWBT634-Grimes May 11, 2012 8:28 Printer: Hamilton Printing
Copyright C© 2012 by Adam Grimes. All rights reserved.
Published by John Wiley & Sons, Inc., Hoboken, New Jersey.
Published simultaneously in Canada.
No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by
any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, scanning, or otherwise, except as permitted un-
der Section 107 or 108 of the 1976 United States Copyright Act, without either the prior written permission of
the Publisher, or authorization through payment of the appropriate per-copy fee to the Copyright Clearance
Center, Inc., 222 Rosewood Drive, Danvers, MA 01923, (978) 750-8400, fax (978) 646-8600, or on the Web at
www.copyright.com. Requests to the Publisher for permission should be addressed to the Permissions Depart-
ment, John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 111 River Street, Hoboken, NJ 07030, (201) 748-6011, fax (201) 748-6008, or
online at http://www.wiley.com/go/permissions.
Limit of Liability/Disclaimer of Warranty: While the publisher and author have used their best efforts in prepar-
ing this book, they make no representations or warranties with respect to the accuracy or completeness of the
contents of this book and speciﬁcally disclaim any implied warranties of merchantability or ﬁtness for a par-
ticular purpose. No warranty may be created or extended by sales representatives or written sales materials.
The advice and strategies contained herein may not be suitable for your situation. You should consult with a
professional where appropriate. Neither the publisher nor author shall be liable for any loss of proﬁt or any
other commercial damages, including but not limited to special, incidental, consequential, or other damages.
Charts generated with the TradeStation platform and code in EasyLanguage format are used with permission.
C© TradeStation Technologies, Inc. 2001–2011, All rights reserved.
For general information on our other products and services or for technical support, please contact our Cus-
tomer Care Department within the United States at (800) 762-2974, outside the United States at (317) 572-3993
or fax (317) 572-4002.
Wiley also publishes its books in a variety of electronic formats. Some content that appears in print may not be
available in electronic books. For more information about Wiley products, visit our web site at www.wiley.com.
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data:
Grimes, Adam, 1973–
The art and science of technical analysis : market structure, price action, and trading strategies /
Adam Grimes.
pages cm. – (Wiley trading series ; 544)
Includes bibliographical references and index.
ISBN 978-1-118-11512-1 (cloth); ISBN 978-1-118-22427-4 (ebk);
ISBN 978-1-118-23814-1 (ebk); ISBN 978-1-118-26247-4 (ebk)
1. Investment analysis. I. Title.
HG4529.G75 2012
332.63
′2042–dc23
2012000874
Printed in the United States of America
1 0987654321
P1: OTA/XYZ P2: ABC
JWBT634-fm JWBT634-Grimes May 11, 2012 8:28 Printer: Hamilton Printing
To my wife Betsy. Without her unfailing love and support
I could have accomplished nothing.
P1: OTA/XYZ P2: ABC
JWBT634-fm JWBT634-Grimes May 11, 2012 8:28 Printer: Hamilton Printing
P1: OTA/XYZ P2: ABC
JWBT634-fm JWBT634-Grimes May 11, 2012 8:28 Printer: Hamilton Printing
Contents
Preface xi
Acknowledgments xv
PART I The Foundation of Technical Analysis
CHAPTER 1 The Trader’s Edge 3
Deﬁning a Trading Edge 4
Finding and Developing Your Edge 7
General Principles of Chart Reading 8
Indicators 12
The Two Forces: Toward a New Understanding
of Market Action 13
Price Action and Market Structure on Charts 15
Charting by Hand 28
CHAPTER 2 The Market Cycle and the Four Trades 31
Wyckoﬀ’s Market Cycle 32
The Four Trades 40
Summary 45
PART II Market Structure
CHAPTER 3 On Trends 49
The Fundamental Pattern 49
Trend Structure 51
A Deeper Look at Pullbacks: The Quintessential Trend
Trading Pattern 65
vii
P1: OTA/XYZ P2: ABC
JWBT634-fm JWBT634-Grimes May 11, 2012 8:28 Printer: Hamilton Printing
viii CONTENTS
Trend Analysis 77
Summary 95
CHAPTER 4 On Trading Ranges 97
Support and Resistance 97
Trading Ranges as Functional Structures 113
Summary 120
CHAPTER 5 Interfaces between Trends and Ranges 121
Breakout Trade: Trading Range to Trend 122
Trend to Trading Range 134
Trend to Opposite Trend (Trend Reversal) 137
Trend to Same Trend (Failure of Trend Reversal) 143
Summary 145
PART III Trading Strategies
CHAPTER 6 Practical Trading Templates 149
Failure Test 150
Pullback, Buying Support or Shorting Resistance 154
Pullback, Entering Lower Time Frame Breakout 162
Trading Complex Pullbacks 165
The Anti 170
Breakouts, Entering in the Preceding Base 174
Breakouts, Entering on First Pullback Following 181
Failed Breakouts 183
Summary 186
CHAPTER 7 Tools for Conﬁrmation 189
The Moving Average—The Still Center 190
Channels: Emotional Extremes 195
Indicators: MACD 202
Multiple Time Frame Analysis 213
CHAPTER 8 Trade Management 231
Placing the Initial Stop 232
Setting Price Targets 235
P1: OTA/XYZ P2: ABC
JWBT634-fm JWBT634-Grimes May 11, 2012 8:28 Printer: Hamilton Printing
Contents ix
Active Management 240
Portfolio Considerations 251
Practical Issues 253
CHAPTER 9 Risk Management 263
Risk and Position Sizing 263
Theoretical Perspectives on Risk 279
Misunderstood Risk 282
Practical Risks in Trading 283
Summary 290
CHAPTER 10 Trade Examples 291
Trend Continuation 293
Trend Termination 313
Failure Test Failures 319
Trading Parabolic Climaxes 323
The Anti 327
Trading at Support and Resistance 336
Summary 343
PART IV The Individual, Self-Directed Trader
CHAPTER 11 The Trader’s Mind 347
Psychological Challenges of the Marketplace 348
Evolutionary Adaptations 349
Cognitive Biases 353
The Random Reinforcement Problem 356
Emotions: The Enemy Within 357
Intuition 360
Flow 364
Practical Psychology 367
Summary 372
CHAPTER 12 Becoming a Trader 375
The Process 376
Record Keeping 385
Statistical Analysis of Trading Results 388
Summary 397
P1: OTA/XYZ P2: ABC
JWBT634-fm JWBT634-Grimes May 11, 2012 8:28 Printer: Hamilton Printing
x CONTENTS
APPENDIX A Trading Primer 399
APPENDIX B A Deeper Look at Moving Averages
and the MACD 409
APPENDIX C Sample Trade Data 425
Glossary 427
Bibliography 443
About the Author 447
Index 449
P1: OTA/XYZ P2: ABC
JWBT634-bpreface JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 11:23 Printer: Hamilton Printing
Preface
T
he book you are holding in your hands is the product of nearly two decades of my
study and experience as a trader, covering the full span of actively traded markets
and time frames. I owe much to authors and traders who have come before me,
for no one produces anything signiﬁcant in a vacuum. I would not have been successful
without the help and guidance of my mentors, but I learned many of the lessons here
from my own mistakes. In some ways, this work represents a radical break from many
of the books that have preceded it, and I hope it encourages you to question much of the
traditional thinking of technical analysis.
This book does not present a rigid system to be strictly followed, nor a set of setups
and patterns that can be assembled at the trader’s whim. Rather, it offers a comprehen-
sive approach to the problems of technically motivated, directional trading. The book is
structured to be read from beginning to end, but individual sections and chapters stand
on their own. Through the entire work, deliberate repetition of important concepts helps
to build a complete perspective on many of the problems traders face. The tools and
techniques must be adapted to the trader’s personality and business situation, but most
will ﬁnd a ﬁrm foundation between these covers.
There are some underlying themes, perhaps not expressed explicitly, that tie this
work together, and they may be surprising to many readers: Trading is hard. Markets
are extremely competitive. They are usually very close to efﬁcient, and most observed
price movements are random. It is therefore exceedingly difﬁcult to derive a method
that makes superior risk-adjusted proﬁts , and it is even more difﬁcult to successfully
apply such a method in actual trading. Last, it is essential to have a veriﬁable edge in
the markets—otherwise no consistent proﬁts are possible. This approach sets this work
apart from the majority of trading books published, which suggest that simple patterns
and proper psychology can lead a trader to impressive proﬁts. Perhaps this is possible,
but I have never seen it work in actual practice.
This book is divided into four parts:
r Part One begins with a look at some of the probability theory supporting the con-
cepts of successful trading. Next comes an in-depth look at a speciﬁc approach to
chart reading that focuses on clarity and consistency lays the foundation for build-
ing and understanding of price patterns in markets. This section concludes with an
xi
P1: OTA/XYZ P2: ABC
JWBT634-bpreface JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 11:23 Printer: Hamilton Printing
xii PREFACE
overview of the Wyckoff market cycle, which is already well known in the literature
of technical analysis.
r Part Two focuses on the details of trends, trading ranges, and critically, the tran-
sitions from one to the other in considerable detail. This is a deep look at the un-
derlying foundation of price movements, and there is information here that, to my
knowledge, has never appeared in print before.
r Part Three might appear, at ﬁrst glance, to be the meat of this book, as it includes
speciﬁc trading patterns and examples of those patterns applied to real markets. It
also advocates a way of looking at indicators and other conﬁrming factors that re-
quires a deep understanding of the nuances of these tools. One of the key elements
of any trading plan is how the trader sizes the trade and manages the position as it
develops; these elements are also covered in considerable depth. Much attention is
devoted to the many risks traders will encounter, both from the market and from
themselves. Though most traders are going to be tempted to turn directly to this sec-
tion, remember that these patterns are only the tip of the spear, and they are mean-
ingless unless they are placed within the context provided by Parts One and Two.
r Part Four is speciﬁcally written for the individual trader, and begins by focusing on
elements of psychology such as cognitive biases and issues of emotional control.
Chapter 11 takes a look at many of the challenges developing traders typically face.
Though it is impossible to reduce the trader development process to a one-size-ﬁts-
all formula, the majority of traders struggle with the same issues. Most traders fail
because they do not realize that the process of becoming a trader is a long one,
and they are not prepared to make the commitment. This section concludes with a
look at some performance analysis tools that can help both the developing and the
established trader to track key performance metrics and to target problems before
they have a serious impact on the bottom line.
r Last, there are three appendixes in this work. The ﬁrst appendix is a trading primer
that will be useful for developing traders or for managers who do not have a famil-
iarity with the language used by traders. Like any discipline, trading has its own id-
ioms and lingo, an understanding of which is important for effective communication.
The second expands on the some speciﬁc details and quirks of moving averages the
MACD, which are used extensively in other sections of this book. The last appendix
simply contains a list of trade data used in the performance analysis of Part Four.
This book is written for two distinct groups of traders. It is overtly addressed to
the individual, self-directed trader, either trading for his or her own account or who has
exclusive trading authority over a number of client accounts. The self-directed trader
will ﬁnd many sections speciﬁcally addressed to the struggles he or she faces, and to the
errors he or she is likely to make along the way. Rather than focusing on arcane concepts
and theories, this trader needs to learn to properly read a chart, and most importantly, to
understand the emerging story of supply and demand as it plays out through the patterns
in the market.
P1: OTA/XYZ P2: ABC
JWBT634-bpreface JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 11:23 Printer: Hamilton Printing
Preface xiii
Though this book is primarily written for that self-directed trader, there is also much
information that will be valuable to a second group of traders and managers who do not
approach markets from a technical perspective or who make decisions within an insti-
tutional framework. For these traders, some of the elements such as trader psychology
may appear, at ﬁrst glance, to be less relevant, but they provide a context for all mar-
ket action. These traders will also ﬁnd new perspectives on risk management, position
sizing, and pattern analysis that may be able to inform their work in different areas.
The material in this book is complex; repeated exposure and rereading of certain
sections will be an essential part of the learning process for most traders. In addition, the
size of this book may be daunting to many readers. Once again, the book is structured to
be read and absorbed from beginning to end. Themes and concepts are developed and
revisited, and repetition is used to reinforce important ideas, but it may also be helpful
to have a condensed study plan for some readers. Considering the two discrete target
audiences, I would suggest the following plans:
r Both the individual and the institutional trader should page through the entire
book, reading whatever catches their interest. Each chapter has been made as self-
contained as possible, while trying to keep redundancy to an absolute minimum.
r After an initial quick read, the individual trader should carefully read Chapters 1 and
2, which provide a foundation for everything else. This trader should probably next
read Part Four (Chapters 11 and 12) in depth, paying particular attention to the el-
ements of the trader development process. Next, turn to Chapters 6 and 10, which
focus on often-misunderstood aspects of risk and position sizing. Two important as-
pects of the book are missed on this ﬁrst read: in-depth analysis of market structure
and the use of conﬁrming tools in setting up and managing actual trades. These are
topics for deeper investigation once the initial material has been assimilated.
r For the institutional trader, Chapter 1 is also a logical follow-up to a quick read.
Next, Chapter 2 would provide a good background and motivation for the entire
discipline of technical analysis. Chapters 8 and 9 will likely be very interesting to this
trader. For managers who are used to thinking of risk in a portfolio context, there are
important lessons to be learned from a tactical/technical approach to position and
risk management. Last, many of these readers will have an academic background.
Chapters 2 through 5 would round out this trader’s understanding of evolving market
structure.
Following both of these study plans, it is advisable to then begin again from the
beginning, or perhaps to turn to the parts of the book not covered in these shorter plans
and pick up what you have missed. Intellectually, the material can be assimilated fairly
quickly, but ﬂawless application may remain elusive for some time. Additional materials
supporting this book, including a blog updated with examples and trades drawn from
current market action, are available at my web site and blog, www.adamhgrimes.com.
P1: OTA/XYZ P2: ABC
JWBT634-bpreface JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 11:23 Printer: Hamilton Printing
xiv PREFACE
The title of this book isThe Art and Science of Technical Analysis.Science deals pri-
marily with elements that are quantiﬁable and testable. The process of teaching a science
usually focuses on the development of a body of knowledge, procedures, and approaches
to data—the precise investigation of what is known and knowable. Art is often seen as
more subjective and imprecise, but this is not entirely correct. In reality, neither can exist
without the other. Science must deal with the philosophical and epistemological issues
of the edges of knowledge, and scientiﬁc progress depends on inductive leaps as much
as logical steps. Art rests on a foundation of tools and techniques that can and should be
scientiﬁcally quantiﬁed, but it also points to another mode of knowing that stands some-
what apart from the usual procedures of logic. The two depend on each other: Science
without Art is sterile; Art without Science is soft and incomplete. Nowhere is this truer
than in the study of modern ﬁnancial markets.
A
DAM GRIMES
September 2011
New York, New York
P1: OTA/XYZ P2: ABC
JWBT634-back JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:15 Printer: Hamilton Printing
Acknowledgments
F
irst, to Linda Raschke: I owe you a debt I can never repay—who would have
thought your kindness that began with answering a simple e-mail so many years
ago would have had such a profound impact on someone’s life?
Jose Palau, you played a seminal role in helping me crystallize the ideas for this
book. There were times in our arguments that I wanted to punch you, and I’m sure it was
mutual. In the end, much of what is good in this book came from those discussions, and,
as you said, “there is no spoon.”
There have been many others along the way who have challenged my thinking
with new ideas and helped to drive out imprecision and errors in my trading. To Larry
Williams, Mark Fisher, Chris Terry, Ralph Vince, Chuck LeBeau, Victor Niederhoffer,
Michael Gunther, Louis Hazan, Mark D. Cook, David McCracken, Doug Zalesky, and
Andrew Barber, thank you. Andrew Karolyi and Ingrid Werner, you expanded my think-
ing and opened my mind to new possibilities.
The ﬁrst draft of this book was produced in 45 days, but then the real work began.
Henry Carstens, David Dyte, and Dr. Brett Steenbarger provided invaluable guidance
in the early stages of this project, and helped me to see some of the problems from
many perspectives. Perry Kaufman provided some good quantitiative insights and cri-
tique. Travis Harbauer, you were the best intern imaginable. Being willing to get on a
train at 10:00 p.m. on a Friday night with a ﬂash drive is far above and beyond the call
of duty! And Aimin Walsh—how (and why) does someone meticulously proofread a 900-
page manuscript in a single week while having a real life, a job, and, presumably, sleeping
sometime in between? My mother, Lila Grimes, persevered in reading and editing early
versions of this manuscript, a difﬁcult task but a valuable perspective from someone
not familiar with the subject matter. Thank you also to my small army of interns who
proofread, crunched numbers, and made a thousand small improvements to my work:
Benjamin Shopneck, Ethan Tran, Austin Tran, and Fred Barnes. This project would have
taken far longer, and the ﬁnished work would have been much weaker, without your
contributions. Thank you so much to all of you.
I probably would have put off writing this book much longer if not for the encour-
agement of Mike Bellaﬁore. His advice, to “make a book that will be a gift to the trading
community,” guided my actions at every step.
Last, but certainly not least, Kevin Commins and Meg Freeborn at John Wiley & Sons,
your work supporting a ﬁrst-time author was fantastic. Thank you for dealing with my
questions and for navigating the complexity of this manuscript so well. It has been a joy
working with you.
xv
P1: OTA/XYZ P2: ABC
JWBT634-back JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:15 Printer: Hamilton Printing
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c01 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:17 Printer: Hamilton Printing
PART I
The Foundation of
Technical Analysis
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c01 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:17 Printer: Hamilton Printing
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c01 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:17 Printer: Hamilton Printing
CHAPTER 1
The Trader’s Edge
If you would be a real seeker after truth, it is necessary that at least
once in your life you doubt, as far as possible, all things.
—Ren ´e Descartes
T
here is something fascinating and mesmerizing about price movements in actively
traded markets; academics, researchers, traders, and analysts are drawn to study
markets, perhaps captivated as much by the patterns in the market as by the
promise of ﬁnancial gain. Many people believe that price changes are random and un-
predictable; if this were true, the only logical course of action would be to avoid trading
and to invest in index funds. This is, in fact, what a signiﬁcant number of ﬁnancial ad-
visers recommend their clients do. On the other hand, there are analysts and traders
who believe that they have some edge over the market, that there is some predictability
in prices. This camp divides into two groups that historically have been diametrically
opposed: those who make decisions based on fundamental factors and those who rely
on technical factors. Fundamental analysts and traders make decisions based on their
assessment of value, through an analysis of a number of factors such as ﬁnancial state-
ments, economic conditions, and an understanding of supply/demand factors. Techni-
cal traders and analysts make decisions based on information contained in past price
changes themselves.
Our work here concerns the latter approach. Few traders make decisions in a vac-
uum; technical traders may consider fundamental factors, and fundamental traders may
ﬁnd that their entries and exits into markets can be better timed with an understand-
ing of the relevant elements of market structure, money ﬂows, and price action. Most
traders ﬁnd success with a hybrid approach that incorporates elements from many disci-
plines, and there are very few purely technical or fundamental decision makers. The key
distinction, for us, is that technically motivated traders acknowledge the primacy of price
itself. They know that price represents the end product of the analysis and decision
3
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c01 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:17 Printer: Hamilton Printing
4 THE FOUNDATION OF TECHNICAL ANALYSIS
making of all market participants, and believe that a careful analysis of price movements
can sometimes reveal areas of market imbalance that can offer opportunities for supe-
rior risk-adjusted proﬁts. Building the tools for that analysis and learning how to apply
them is the purpose of this book.
DEFINING A TRADING EDGE
Most of the time, markets are efﬁcient, meaning that all available information is reﬂected
in asset prices, and that price is a fair reﬂection of value. Most of the time, prices ﬂuctuate
in a more or less random fashion. Though a trader may make some proﬁtable trades in
this type of environment purely due to random chance, it is simply not possible to proﬁt
in the long run; nothing the trader can do will have a positive effect on the bottom line as
long as randomness dominates price changes. In theory, in a true zero-expectancy game,
it should be possible to trade in a random environment and to break even, but reality is
different. Trading accounts in the real world suffer under the constant drag of a number
of trading frictions, transaction costs, errors, and other risks. Together, these create a
high hurdle that must be overcome in order to break even. It is even possible for a trader
to work with a positive expectancy system and still lose a signiﬁcant amount of money
to the vig.
Newer traders especially are often drawn to focus on elements of performance psy-
chology and positive thinking. There is an entire industry that caters to struggling traders,
holding out hope that if they could just get their psychological issues resolved, money
would ﬂow into their trading accounts. However, this fails to address the core problem,
which is that most traders are doing things in the market that do not work. Excellent ex-
ecution, risk management, discipline, and proper psychology are all important elements
of a good trading plan, but it is all futile if the trading system does not have a positive
expectancy. These are essential tools through which a trading edge can be applied to the
market, and without which a trader is unlikely to succeed in the long run. However, none
of these is a trading edge in itself.
A positive expectancy results when the trader successfully identiﬁes those moments
where markets are slightly less random than usual, and places trades that are aligned
with the slight statistical edges present in those areas. Some traders are drawn to fo-
cus on high-probability (high win rate) trading, while others focus on ﬁnding trades that
have excellent reward/risk proﬁles. Neither of these approaches is better than the other;
what matters is how these two factors of probability and reward/risk ratio interact. For
instance, it is possible to be consistently proﬁtable with a strategy that risks many times
more than what is made, as long as the win rate is high enough, or with a much lower
percentage of winning trades if the reward/risk ratio compensates. In all cases, the trad-
ing problem reduces to a matter of identifying when a statistical edge is present in the
market, acting accordingly, and avoiding market environments that are more random. To
do this well, it is essential to have a good understanding of how markets move and also
some of the math behind expectancy and probability theory.
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c01 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:17 Printer: Hamilton Printing
The Trader’s Edge 5
Expected Value
Expected value (or expectancy) is a term from probability theory that every good trader
and gambler understands intuitively. For our purposes, we need to deﬁne a number of
scenarios that each have a precisely deﬁned payout (or loss), and we also need to be able
to quantify the probabilities of each scenario occurring. If we are analyzing actual trad-
ing records, this can be as simple as calculating summary statistics for historical trades,
but the problem is much more complicated on a look-forward basis because we have to
make assumptions about how closely future conditions are likely to resemble history.
Furthermore, we also need to make sure that our calculations include every possible
outcome so that the probabilities sum to 1.0; this is sometimes difﬁcult in real-world
applications where unforeseeable outlier events may lurk in the future. Leaving these
practical considerations aside for a moment and focusing on the underlying math, multi-
plying the payout of each scenario by the probability of each scenario occurring creates
a probability-weighted average of the payouts, which is also called the expected value.
The Expected Value Formula
Formally, for k possible scenarios, each with a payoﬀ of x and associated probability p,
the expected value E( ) is deﬁned as:
E(X) = x1 p1 + x2 p2 + ··· + xk pk
or, in alternate notation:
E(X) =
k∑
i=1
xi pi
Consider a simpliﬁed example where a trader can either make or lose 1 point
with 50 percent probability of either outcome. In this example, the relevant math is:
E(X) = .5(1) + .5(−1) = 0. It is important to understand precisely what expectancy tells
us, which, in the case of a simpliﬁed trading or game of chance scenario, is the average
amount we should win or lose on each trial. Furthermore, and this is very important,
like many things in the ﬁeld of probability, expectancy is valid only over a fairly large
sample size. Even though our trader was playing a zero expectancy game, it is entirely
possible that the trader could have had many wins or losses in a row, and could actually
have accumulated a signiﬁcant gain or loss at some point. In fact, it is very likely thiswill
happen because random data tends to have many more strings of runs than most people
would expect. Over a larger sample, it is likely that the actual value realized will begin to
converge on the theoretical expected value, but distortions can and do occur.
The bottom line is that you must have an edge. If you are not trading with a statis-
tical advantage over the market, everything else is futile. Nothing will help. Discipline,
money management, execution skills, and positive thinking add great value in support
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c01 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:17 Printer: Hamilton Printing
6 THE FOUNDATION OF TECHNICAL ANALYSIS
of an actual edge, but they are not edges in themselves. From a statistical standpoint,
the deﬁnition of an edge is simple: can you properly identify entry and exit points in the
market so that, over a large sample size, the sum of the proﬁt and loss (P&L) from your
winning trades is greater than the sum of your losing trades? The question then becomes:
how do you ﬁnd, develop, reﬁne, and maintain an edge? There are many answers to that
question; this book shows one possible path.
Where Does the Edge Come From?
Many of the buying and selling decisions in the market are made by humans, either as
individuals, in groups (as in an investment committee making a decision), or through
extension (as in the case of execution algorithms or “algos”). One of the assumptions
of academic ﬁnance is that people make rational decisions in their own best interests,
after carefully calculating the potential gains and losses associated with all possible sce-
narios. This may be true at times, but not always. The market does not simply react to
new information ﬂow; it reacts to that information as it is processed through the lens of
human emotion. People make emotional decisions about market situations, and some-
times they make mistakes. Information may be overweighted or underweighted in anal-
ysis, and everyone, even large institutions, deals with the emotions of fear, greed, hope,
and regret.
In an idealized, mathematical random walk world, price would have no memory of
where it has been in the past; but in the real world, prices are determined by traders
making buy and sell decisions at speciﬁc times and prices. When markets revisit these
speciﬁc prices, the market does have a memory, and we frequently see nonrandom ac-
tion on these retests of important price levels. People remember the hopes, fears, and
pain associated with price extremes. In addition, most large-scale buying follows a more
or less predictable pattern: traders and execution algorithms alike will execute part of
large orders aggressively, and then will wait to allow the market to absorb the action
before resuming their executions. The more aggressive the buyers, the further they will
lift offers and the less they will wait between spurts of buying. This type of action, and
the memory of other traders around previous inﬂections, creates slight but predictable
tendencies in prices.
There is no mystical, magical process at work here or at any other time in the mar-
ket. Buying and selling pressure moves prices—only this, and nothing more. If someone
really wants to buy and to buy quickly, the market will respond to the buying and sell-
ers will raise their offers as they realize they can get a better (higher) price. Similarly,
when large sell orders hit the market, buyers who were waiting on the bid will get out of
the way because they realize that extra supply has come into the market. More urgency
to sell means lower prices. More buying pressure means higher prices. The conclusion
is logical and unavoidable: buying and selling pressure must, by necessity, leave pat-
terns in the market. Our challenge is to understand how psychology can shape market
structure and price action, and to ﬁnd places where this buying and selling pressure cre-
ates opportunities in the form of nonrandom price action.
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c01 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:17 Printer: Hamilton Printing
The Trader’s Edge 7
The Holy Grail
This is important. In fact, it is the single most important point in technical analysis—the
holy grail, if you will. Every edge we have, as technical traders, comes from an imbal-
ance of buying and selling pressure. That’s it, pure and simple. If we realize this and
if we limit our involvement in the market to those points where there is an actual im-
balance, then there is the possibility of making proﬁts. We can sometimes identify these
imbalances through the patterns they create in prices, and these patterns can provide
actual points around which to structure and execute trades. Be clear on this point: we do
not trade patterns in markets—we trade the underlying imbalances that create those pat-
terns. There is no holy grail in trading, but this knowledge comes close. To understand
why this is so important, it is necessary to ﬁrst understand what would happen if we tried
to trade in a world where price action was purely random.
FINDING AND DEVELOPING YOUR EDGE
The process of developing and reﬁning your edge in the market is exactly that: an ongo-
ing process. This is not something you do one time; it is an iterative process that begins
with ideas, progressing to distilling those ideas to actionable trading systems, and then
monitoring the results. Midcourse corrections are to be expected, and dramatic retool-
ing, especially at the beginning, is common. It is necessary to monitor ongoing perfor-
mance as markets evolve, and some edges will decay over time. To be successful as an
individual discretionary trader means committing to this process. Trading success, for
the discretionary trader, is a dynamic state that will ﬂuctuate in response to a multitude
of factors.
Why Small Traders Can Make Money
This is an obvious issue, but one that is often ignored. The argument of many academics
is that you can’t make money trading; your best bet is to put your money in a diversiﬁed
fund and reap the baseline drift compounded over many years. (For most investors, this
is not a bad plan for at least a portion of their portfolios.) Even large, professionally man-
aged funds have a very difﬁcult time beating the market, so why should you be able to do
so, sitting at home or in your ofﬁce without any competitive or informational advantage?
You are certainly not the best-capitalized player in the arena, and, in a ﬁeld that attracts
some of the best and brightest minds in the world, you are unlikely to be the smartest.
You also will not win by sheer force of will and determination. Even if you work harder
than nearly anyone else, a well-capitalized ﬁrm could hire 20 of you and that is what you
are competing against. What room is there for the small, individual trader to make proﬁts
in the market?
The answer, I think, is simple but profound: you can make money because you are
not playing the same game as these other players. One reason the very large funds have
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c01 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:17 Printer: Hamilton Printing
8 THE FOUNDATION OF TECHNICAL ANALYSIS
trouble beating the market is that they are so large that they are the market. Many
of these ﬁrms are happy to scrape out a few incremental basis points on a relative ba-
sis, and they do so through a number of specialized strategies. This is probably not how
you intend to trade. You probably cannot compete with large institutions on fundamen-
tal work. You probably cannot compete with HFTs and automated trading programs on
speed, nor can you compete with the quant ﬁrms that hire armies of PhDs to scour every
conceivable relationship between markets.
This is all true, but you also do not have the same restrictions that many of these
ﬁrms do: you are not mandated to have any speciﬁc exposures. In most markets, you
will likely experience few, if any, liquidity or size issues; your orders will have a minimal
(but still very real) impact on prices. Most small traders can be opportunistic. If you
have the skills, you can move freely among currencies, equities, futures, and options,
using outright or spread strategies as appropriate. Few institutional investors enjoy these
freedoms. Last, and perhaps most signiﬁcantly, you are free to target a time frame that is
not interesting to many institutions and not accessible to some.
One solution is to focus on the three-day to two-week swings, as many swing traders
do. First, this steps up out of the noise created by the HFTs and algos. Many large ﬁrms,
particularly those that make decisions on fundamental criteria, avoid short time frames
altogether. They may enter and exit positions over multiple days or weeks; your proﬁts
and losses over a few days are inconsequential to them. Rather than compete directly,
play a different game and target a different time frame. As Sun Tzu wrote in the Art
of War: “Tactics are like unto water; for water in its natural state runs away from high
places and hastens downward ... avoid what is strong and strike at what is weak.”
GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF CHART READING
Charts are powerful tools for traders, but it is important to think deeply about what a
chart is and what it represents. Though it is possible to trade by focusing on simple chart
patterns, this approach also misses much of the richness and depth of analysis that are
available to a skilled chart reader. Top-level trading combines traditional left brain skills
of logic, math, and analytical thinking with the intuitive, inductive skills of right brain
thinking. Charts speak directly to the right brain, whose native language is pictures and
images. Part of your edge as a discretionary trader comes from integrating these two
halves of your being; charts are a powerful tool that can facilitate this integration and
foster the growth of intuition.
Modern software packages are a mixed blessing for traders. On one hand, they have
greatly increased the scope and breadth of our vision. It is not unusual for a modern
trader to examine 400 or 500 charts in the course of a trading day, sometimes more
than once, quickly assessing the character of a market or a set of related markets. This
would not have been possible in the precomputer era, when charts had to be labori-
ously drawn and updated by hand. However, charting software also encourages some
potentially harmful habits. It is so easy to add various plots and indicators to charts and
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c01 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:17 Printer: Hamilton Printing
The Trader’s Edge 9
to tweak and change settings and time frames that some traders are forever experiment-
ing and searching for the holy grail of technical indicators. Other traders bury price bars
behind a barrage of moving averages and other indicators, thinking that complexity will
lead to better trading results. Simplicity is often better than complexity. A chart is noth-
ing more than a tool to display market data in a structured format. Once traders learn
to read the message of the market, they can understand the psychological tone and the
balance of buying and selling pressure at any point.
When it comes to chart setup, there is no one right way, but I will share my approach.
Everything I do comes from an emphasis on clarity and consistency. Clean charts put the
focus where it belongs: on the price bars and the developing market structure. Tools that
highlight and emphasize the underlying market’s structure are good; anything that de-
tracts from that focus is bad. When you see a chart, you want the price bars (or candles)
to be the ﬁrst and most important thing your eye is drawn to; any calculated measure is
only a supplement or an enhancement. Consistency is also very important, for two sepa-
rate reasons. First, consistency reduces the time required to orient between charts. It is
not unusual for me to scan 500 charts in a single sitting, and I can effectively do this by
spending a little over a second on each chart. This is possible only because every one of
my charts has the same layout and I can instantly orient and drill down to the relevant
information. Consistency is also especially important for the developing trader because
part of the learning process is training your eye to process data a certain way. If you are
forever switching formats, this learning curve becomes much longer and steeper, and the
development of intuition will be stymied. Keep the same format between all markets and
time frames, and keep the setup of all of your charts as consistent as possible.
Chart Scaling: Linear versus Log
The one exception to the principle of keeping charts consistent might be in the case of
very long-term charts spanning multiple years, or shorter-term charts in which an asset
has greatly increased in value (by over 100 percent). In these cases, the vertical axis of
the chart should be scaled logarithmically (called “semi-log” in some charting packages)
to better reﬂect the growth rate of the market. The idea behind a log scale chart is that
the same vertical distance always represents the same percentage growth regardless of
location on the axis.
On a very long-term chart, linearly scaled charts will often make price changes at
lower price levels so small that they disappear and they are completely dwarfed by price
changes that happened at higher levels. The linear scale also magniﬁes the importance
of those higher-level price changes, making them seem more violent and signiﬁcant than
they actually were. Compare Figure 1.1 and Figure 1.2, two charts of the long-term history
of the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA), especially noticing the diﬀerences between the
two charts at the beginning and end of the series. They seem to tell completely diﬀerent
stories. The ﬁrst chart shows a ﬂat and uninteresting beginning followed by violent swings
(Continued )
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c01 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:17 Printer: Hamilton Printing
10 THE FOUNDATION OF TECHNICAL ANALYSIS
FIGURE 1.1 Nothing Seems to Matter Before 1985: DJIA on a Linear Scale
FIGURE 1.2 Investors’ Actual Experiences: DJIA on a Log Scale
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c01 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:17 Printer: Hamilton Printing
The Trader’s Edge 11
near the right edge of the chart, while the second, the log scale chart, shows more consis-
tent swings throughout. Over this long history, the log scale chart is a much more accurate
representation of what market participants would have experienced at any point on the
chart. Remember, as a rule of thumb, there are two times when log scale charts should
be used: any time you have greater than a 100 percent price increase on a chart, and for
any chart showing more than two years of data, whether on daily, weekly, or monthly time
frames.
Choosing Time Frames
Discretionary traders must clearly choose and deﬁne the time frame within which they
will trade, and this choice of time frames is tied into deeper questions of personality
and trading style. Most of the trading ideas and principles we examine in this book can
be applied to all markets and all time frames, with some adjustments, but most traders
will probably ﬁnd themselves best suited to a speciﬁc set of markets and time frames.
Traders switching time frames or asset classes will usually undergo a painful adjustment
period while they ﬁgure out how to apply their tools in the new context. For now, let’s
leave these important considerations behind and focus on only the mechanical issues of
setting up charts to cover multiple time frames. In the end, your charts must be a tool
that serves your trading style, not the other way around.
Many authors have written about the advantages of combining multiple time frames.
Multiple time frames can provide context for and inform patterns on a single time frame;
skilled use of multiple time frames allows traders to better manage risk and to increase
the expectancy of their trading plans. Nearly all technical traders consider action and
structure in other time frames, though they do this in a variety of ways. Some traders are
able to infer this information from a single chart, while many others prefer to actually
look at multiple charts of the same market with each chart showing a different time
frame. In a scheme like this, the primary time frame of focus is called the trading time
frame (TTF).A higher time frame (HTF) chart provides a bigger-picture perspective,
while a lower time frame (LTF) chart is usually used to ﬁnd precise entry points. Other
variations, with up to ﬁve or six charts, are possible, and there are many traders who
use only a pair of charts. Last, though the term time frame seems to imply that the x-
axis of the chart will be a time scale (minutes, hours, days, etc.), the same proportional
relationships can be applied to tick, volume, or any other activity-based axis scale on
the x-axis.
In general, time frames should be related to each other by a factor of 3 to 5. There
is no magic in these ratios, but the idea is that each time frame should provide new in-
formation without loss of resolution or unnecessary repetition. For instance, if a trader
is watching a 30-minute chart, a 5- or 10-minute chart probably provides new informa-
tion about what is going on inside each 30-minute bar, whereas a 1-minute chart would
omit signiﬁcant information. Using a 20-minute chart in conjunction with a 30-minute
chart probably adds no new information, as the two charts will be very similar. One
lesser-known relationship is that all vertical distances on charts scale with the square
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c01 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:17 Printer: Hamilton Printing
12 THE FOUNDATION OF TECHNICAL ANALYSIS
root of the ratio of the time frames. This has implications for risk management, proﬁt
targets, stops, and volatility on each time frame. For instance, if a trader has been trad-
ing a system on 5-minute charts with $0.25 stops and wishes to transfer that to 30-minute
charts, the stops will probably need to be adjusted to about $0.61 ($0.25 ×
√
30/5). This
relationship does not hold exactly in all markets and all time frames, but it is a good rule
of thumb and can give some insight into the risks and rewards of other time frames.
The rule of consistency also applies to choice of time frames. Once you have settled
on a trading style and time frame, be slow to modify it unless you have evidence that it is
not working. This story will be told with the most clarity and power in a consistent time
frame. In addition, if you catch yourself wanting to look at a time frame you never look
at while you are in a losing trade, be very careful. This is often a warning of an impending
break of discipline.
Bars, Candles, or Other Choices
Most traders today seem to be focused on using candlestick charts, but the more old-
fashioned bar charts should not be overlooked. Both chart types display the same data
points but in a slightly different format; they have the same information on them, so one
is not better than the other. The main advantage of bar charts is that they can be cleaner
visually and it is usually possible to ﬁt more data in the same space because bars are
thinner than candles. For many traders, the colors of candlestick charts make it easier
to see the buying and selling pressure in the market, providing another important visual
cue that helps the trader process the data faster.
Another issue to consider, particularly with intraday charts, is how much importance
should be attached to the closing print of each period. Historically, this was the price in
many markets, and it still has signiﬁcance in some contexts. Proﬁts and losses (P&Ls),
margins, and various spreads are calculated off daily settlement prices; exchanges have
complex procedures for calculating these prices, which are rarely simply the last print of
the session. However, times are changing. In currencies, most domestic platforms report
a closing price sometime in the New York afternoon, and we have to wonder just how
important that price is for the Australian dollar or the yen, whose primary sessions ended
many hours earlier. As more and more markets go to 24-hour sessions, the importance of
this daily settlement price will continue to decline. The problem is even more signiﬁcant
on intraday bars, bar as closing prices on intraday bars are essentially random samples
and may differ from platform to platform. If you are trading candlestick patterns, which
attach great signiﬁcance to the close, you are trading the patterns you see on your screen.
If you switched to a different data provider, the data might be time-stamped differently,
and you would see different patterns. How important can those patterns really be?
INDICATORS
Indicators are calculated measures that are plotted on price charts, either on top of the
price bars or in panels above or below the bars. There are many different indicators in
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c01 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:17 Printer: Hamilton Printing
The Trader’s Edge 13
common usage, and traders have a wide range of approaches and applications for these
tools. Some traders are minimalists, using few or no indicators at all, while others will use
multiple indicators in complex relationships. In addition, some indicators are extremely
simple calculations, while others are very complex, perhaps even using complex calcula-
tions borrowed from other applications such as radar or digital signal processing. There
is certainly no one right way to set up or use indicators, but, here again, consistency is
paramount. Few traders ﬁnd success by constantly switching between indicators. There
is no holy grail or combination of tools that will lead to easy trading proﬁts.
One other important point is that you must intimately understand the tools you use.
Know how they will react to all market conditions, and know what they are saying about
the market structure and price action at any time. Focus on tools that highlight and em-
phasize important elements of market structure, because your main focus should be on
the price bars themselves. Intuition comes from repeated exposure to structured data in
well-planned and consistent contexts; make your chart setups serve this purpose. Much
of this book—and Chapter 7 and Appendix B in particular—focuses on these ideas and
reinforces the importance of fully understanding every tool you use.
THE TWO FORCES: TOWARD A NEW
UNDERSTANDING OF MARKET ACTION
Price action is a complex and imperfectly deﬁned subject. There are many traders who
believe that price action is something nebulous that cannot be quantiﬁed. To other
traders, trading price action means trading the patterns of price bars on charts, with-
out the addition of indicators or other lines. In this book, price action simply means
how markets usually move, which, frankly, is, usually randomly. Be clear on this point:
markets are usually random and most of the patterns markets create are also random.
However, we can sometimes identify spots where price movement is something less than
random and is somewhat more predictable, and these less-than-random spots may offer
proﬁtable trading opportunities.
Price action is the term used to describe the market’s movements in a dynamic state.
Price action creates market structure, which is the static record of how prices moved
in the past. Think about a ﬁnger tracing a line in the sand. Market structure is the line
left in the sand; price action describes the actual movements of the ﬁnger as it drew the
line. In the case of a ﬁnger, we would talk about smooth or jerky, fast or slow, and lightly
or with deep pressure into the sand. In the case of actual price action, we would look
at elements such as: How does the market react after a large movement in one direc-
tion? If aggressive sellers are pressing the market lower, what happens when they relax
their selling pressure? Does the market bounce back quickly, indicating that buyers are
potentially interested in these depressed prices, or does it sit quietly, resting at lower
levels? How rapidly are new orders coming into the market? Is trading one-directional,
or is there more two-way, back-and-forth trading? Are price levels reached through con-
tinuous motion, or do very large orders cause large jerks in prices? All of these elements,
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c01 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:17 Printer: Hamilton Printing
14 THE FOUNDATION OF TECHNICAL ANALYSIS
and many more, combine to describe how the market moves in response to order ﬂow
and a myriad of competing inﬂuences.
In the past, many authors have used a wide range of analogies to describe ﬁnan-
cial markets. Ideas and models have been borrowed from the physical and mathematical
sciences, so terms like momentum, inertia, vectors, and trajectories have crept into the
vocabulary. More recently, some thinkers have applied the tools of digital signal process-
ing to market data, so we have a new vocabulary that includes cycles, transforms, and
waves. Markets are confusing enough in their natural state; some of the analytical frame-
works traders use add to the confusion. I propose a simpler model: that market action
appears to be the result of two interacting forces: a motive force that attempts to move
price from one level to another and aresistive force that opposes the motive force. These
forces represent the sum of all analysis and decision making at any one time.
The normal state of existence in most markets most of the time is equilibrium. The
two forces are in balance. Buyers and sellers have no sharp disagreement over price; the
market may drift around a central value, but there are no large trends or price changes.
Market action in this environment is highly random; if we were to analyze this type of
action statistically, we would ﬁnd that it conforms very closely to a random walk model.
This is also precisely the type of environment that technically motivated traders must
strive to avoid, as there can be no enduring statistical edge in a randomly driven market.
Markets in this state of equilibrium will have varying degrees of liquidity and ability
to absorb large orders. Eventually, there is a failure of liquidity on one side, and the
market makes a sudden, large movement in one direction. Perhaps this movement is
in response to new information coming into the market, or it can simply be a result
of a random price movement setting off further movement in the same direction. No
matter the reason behind the movement, in theoretical terms, the motive force has, at
least temporarily, overcome the resistive force. In the parlance of technical analysis, this
type of sharp movement is called an impulse move or a momentum move.
From this point, there are basically two options. In many cases, the resistive force
is quickly able to overcome the motive force, and the market ﬁnds balance again. This
may be at a new level, or prices may immediately retrace their course and return to
the preshock levels. Psychologically, market participants have chosen to view this large
price movement as a temporary aberration, and new liquidity comes into the market that
will dampen any future distortion. However, it is possible that the large price spike will
lead to continued movement in the same direction. In this scenario, a feedback loop
develops where the market makes a large movement, which, in turn, provokes another
large price movement, and the market trends.
In most cases, the market structure of this trending movement will be a series
of directional moves alternating with nondirectional periods in which the market
essentially rests and absorbs the previous move. In the bigger picture, the motive force
has overcome the resistive force, but there is still a subtle interplay of balance and
imbalance on shorter time frames. Prices trend because of an imbalance of buying and
selling pressure. (This is often, but not always, indicative of nonrandom action, as trends
exist in completely random data.) Once prices are trending, at some point they will have
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c01 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:17 Printer: Hamilton Printing
The Trader’s Edge 15
moved far enough that the resistive force is once again able to balance the motive force,
and the market again ﬁnds a new balance.
This interplay of motive and resistive forces, from a very high-level perspective, is
the essence of price action and the root of technical analysis. The patterns we see in
the market are only reﬂections of the convictions of buyers and sellers. They are useful
because we can see them, trade them, and use them to deﬁne risk, but always remember
that they are manifestations of deeper forces in the marketplace.
PRICE ACTION AND MARKET STRUCTURE
ON CHARTS
Charts are a way to organize and to structure the ﬂood of information the market gen-
erates and can reveal clues about the strength of the underlying forces. There is no one
right way to read a chart, but I will share the basic elements of an approach that has been
very useful to me over the years. These tools and this framework have shown themselves
to be reliable time and time again, but these aremy tools and my method. You must make
them your own tools. Use everything here as a collection of ideas from which you can
begin to build your own approach to the markets.
Market structure refers to the static structure visible on charts, made up of previous
movements in the market and places where those movements stopped. The key elements
of market structure arepivot points and the swings connecting them, both of which may
be evaluated either in price (the vertical axis on a chart), in time (the horizontal axis), or
in a combination of the two.
Price action is the dynamic process that creates market structure. Price action is
also more subjective; in most cases, market structure is concrete. Market structure is
static and is clearly visible on a chart, but price action usually must be inferred from
market structure. Also, both are speciﬁc to time frames, though price action is often visi-
ble as the market structure of lower time frames. These deﬁnitions and their implications
will become clear over the next chapters.
Pivot Points
The basic units of market structure on any time frame are pivot highs and lows (also
called swing highs or lows). A pivot high is a bar that has a higher high than the bar that
came before it and the bar that comes after it. At least in the very short term, the bar’s
high represents the high-water mark past which buyers were not able to push price, and
can be considered a very minor source of potential resistance. A pivot low is the same
concept inverted: a bar with a lower low relative to both the preceding and the following
bars. Figure 1.3 shows a chart with every pivot high and pivot low marked. Note that it is
possible for a bar to be both a pivot high and a pivot low at the same time, and that pivot
highs and pivot lows are very common.
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c01 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:17 Printer: Hamilton Printing
16 THE FOUNDATION OF TECHNICAL ANALYSIS
FIGURE 1.3 Every Pivot High and Low
Another name for the type of pivot in Figure 1.3 is a ﬁrst-order pivot. Though these
ﬁrst-order pivots do sometimes coincide with major turning points in the market, they
are so common that they cannot be extremely signiﬁcant. Every major turning point, by
deﬁnition, comes at a pivot, so it is easy to overstate their importance; once you see
a chart with every possible pivot marked, it becomes obvious that this structure is so
common that it is nearly insigniﬁcant. It is also interesting to consider that most pivots
on one time frame mark signiﬁcant market structures on lower time frames, but this is a
complication that we will save for later. As a stand-alone concept, ﬁrst-order pivot highs
and lows have limited utility; their power comes from their relationship to other pivots
and their ability to deﬁne market structure. They are like a single brick in a building—not
that interesting or useful by itself.
Second-order pivot highs (also called intermediate-term pivots) are ﬁrst-order pivot
highs that are preceded and followed by lower ﬁrst-order pivot highs; again, this structure
is inverted for second-order pivot lows. In Figure 1.4, notice that these second-order
pivots begin to deﬁne some more signiﬁcant structural points. It is much more likely that
second-order pivots will come at important turning points, but remember that there is no
predictive power because this is a pattern that is deﬁned post hoc. They always look far
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c01 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:17 Printer: Hamilton Printing
The Trader’s Edge 17
FIGURE 1.4 Second-Order Pivots (Marked with Arrows) Deﬁne More Important Market Structure
more signiﬁcant in the middle of a chart than they do on the right edge. It is also worth
noting that there is no law that says second-order pivot highs and lows have to alternate;
it is possible to have three second-order pivot highs or lows in a row. If you are going to
use this concept systematically, make sure your rules plan for this situation.
Predictably, this concept can be extended on many levels, but in actual practice,
most of our focus is on third-order pivots, which usually mark major inﬂections (see
Figure 1.5). Almost without exception, a trader who could identify these third-order
pivots in advance would have nearly perfect entries on both sides of the market. This
cannot be done, but it does point out that these third-order pivots delineate the mar-
ket structure very clearly. It is worth your time to train your eye to see these pivots
quickly; the value in this structure is in providing context for the market’s movements.
Once you understand the basic ideas behind this concept, it is probably a good idea
to not be too rigid with these structures and deﬁnitions. If you see something on a
chart that is fulﬁlling the basic role of one of these structures but for one reason or
another does not exactly ﬁt the criteria, it often makes sense to bend the rules for
that case. The goal is to deﬁne meaningful market structure, not to blindly follow a set
of rules.
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c01 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:17 Printer: Hamilton Printing
18 THE FOUNDATION OF TECHNICAL ANALYSIS
FIGURE 1.5 Third-Order Pivots Usually Deﬁne the Most Important Market Structure on Any
Time Frame
It also should be obvious that this is a backward-looking analytical method. This is a
problem with all swing or wave methods: they offer fantastic explanations of past mar-
ket action, but have little or no predictive power at the right edge. This pivot structure is
not intended to be a trading methodology; it is context. For instance, a sharp down move
might be interpreted differently if it comes at a point where the market had been mak-
ing consistently higher second-order pivot highs and lows compared to an environment
where they were more randomly distributed. As another example, a movement that pen-
etrates a signiﬁcant third-order pivot high or low can sometimes signiﬁcantly change the
market environment. The purpose of this tool is to provide that structure and context,
not actual trade entries.
Length of Swing
Once we have deﬁned the second- or third-order pivot structure of the market, we can
connect the pivot highs and lows with lines to outline the swing structure of the market.
(In the spots where highs and lows do not alternate, take the lowest low of the series
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c01 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:17 Printer: Hamilton Printing
The Trader’s Edge 19
or the highest high of the series as the anchor point.) If this type of analysis is new to
you, it is probably a good idea to draw the structure on a few hundred charts until it
becomes somewhat intuitive; eventually you want to be able to glance at a chart and
see this structure immediately. Like everything else, it gets easier only with continued
practice and familiarity. It is impossible to overstate the importance of this skill.
Once the individual swings are delineated, we can start to consider what the market
structure actually tells us about the balance of buying and selling pressure in the market.
The core concepts are simple:
r When buyers are stronger than sellers, upswings will be longer, both in price and in
time, than downswings.
r When sellers are in control, downswings will be longer than upswings.
r Signiﬁcant support and resistance levels are visible as rough areas (not precise lines)
beyond which pivots have been unable to penetrate.
r When there is relative equilibrium, there is no clear pattern to the swings.
There is nothing mysterious about market structure and price action. They grow
from these simple patterns, which then combine in a nearly inﬁnite number of variations.
Focusing on the variations is difﬁcult because they are legion—it is an exercise in futility
to try to catalog all of the complexities and variations of patterns, though this attempt
has been repeated many times throughout history. Understand the root. Understand the
market structure. There are a handful of common patterns and templates that provide
the foundation for most of the signiﬁcant patterns in the market. We will spend much
of the rest of this book reﬁning these templates, looking at speciﬁc ways to trade around
them, and considering how to manage the risk of those trades. Here is a brief introduction
to a few of the most important of these patterns. Commit them to memory; you will be
seeing them again.
Figure 1.6 shows the basic uptrend template: upswings are longer than the down-
swings, creating a consistent pattern of higher pivot lows and higher pivot highs. This
pattern, inverted, would become a downtrend.
Figure 1.7 shows a market in a trading range. This is a random environment in which
the conviction of buyers and sellers is relatively equal and there is no clear pattern to
FIGURE 1.6 An Uptrend
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c01 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:17 Printer: Hamilton Printing
20 THE FOUNDATION OF TECHNICAL ANALYSIS
FIGURE 1.7 A Trading Range
???
FIGURE 1.8 A Break in the Uptrend Pattern
prices. There can be sudden, sharp moves within trading ranges, but they are often more
or less unpredictable.
Figure 1.8 shows a pattern that gives a warning of a break in an uptrend’s established
pattern. This is often the ﬁrst step of a trend change, but you cannot trade based only on
this pattern; this is a warning sign to pay careful attention to what comes next. There is
great value in knowing when patterns have broken, as this suggests a potential change in
the balance of buyers and sellers in the market.
Figure 1.9 shows an example of a classic breakout above resistance. This suggests
one of two things: On one hand, markets in trading ranges (see Figure 1.7) are highly
random and this type of move may be nothing more than a random (and temporary)
move beyond previous levels. On the other hand, it could be an early warning that buying
FIGURE 1.9 A Breakout of the Trading Range
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c01 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:17 Printer: Hamilton Printing
The Trader’s Edge 21
FIGURE 1.10 A Breakout Preceded by Higher Lows into Resistance
pressure is now stronger than selling pressure in this market, and it is possible that prices
could trend signiﬁcantly higher from this point.
Figure 1.10 shows a particular pattern that often precedes the best breakouts. If buy-
ers are able to hold the market higher on successive declines, a pattern of higher pivot
lows pressing against the resistance area will result. This suggests real buying conviction
supporting the move and the potential breakout.
This is certainly not a complete encyclopedia of swing patterns, but it does highlight
the basic concept: the length of swings and the relative position of pivot points can give
insight into the character of the market.
Market Structure versus Traditional Chart Patterns
There are two broad schools of thought in technical analysis. One approach is to catalog
every possible chart pattern and variation of those patterns. A trader using this approach
might look for wedges, pennants, ﬂags, boxes, ledges, head and shoulders patterns, and
double tops and bottoms—these are only a few of the traditional patterns, and many more
have worked their way into modern practice. These traders spend a lot of time studying
these patterns and variations, and they usually have speciﬁc trading plans for each pattern.
Richard Schabacker was the ﬁrst writer to codify this approach, in the late 1920s, and it
was crystallized in his landmark 1932 Technical Analysis and Stock Market Proﬁts.
Upon his early death in 1935, his brother-in-law, Robert Edwards, took over the com-
pany he had founded and continued his work of market analysis. Later, Edwards teamed
up with John Magee, and the two wroteTechnical Analysis of Stock Trends (1948; 4th ed.,
1964), which is now considered to be the ultimate, authoritative source on chart patterns.
The Schabacker approach (which is not known by that name because few people know
the history behind Edwards and Magee) is the predominant school of modern technical
analysis, but there is another path.
The second broad school of technical analysis is Richard Wyckoﬀ’s approach. The core
concept here is that chart patterns have very limited utility, and what predictive power they
do have is highly dependent on the context in which they appear. The only real purpose of
(Continued )
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c01 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:17 Printer: Hamilton Printing
22 THE FOUNDATION OF TECHNICAL ANALYSIS
chart patterns is to quantify and to deﬁne the buying and selling pressure in the market.
In many cases, traders using both approaches will arrive at similar conclusions. These
are two diﬀerent means to the same end, but many traders ﬁnd a richness and depth in
the Wyckoﬀ approach that surpasses a simplistic focus on chart patterns. We trade the
underlying buying and selling imbalance, which is what will move price in our favor if we
are correct.
Reading Inside the Bars
One skill that is often overlooked in chart reading is the ability to look at a bar on a chart
and to infer what price action might have created that bar. In practical terms, this means
being able to look at a bar on one time frame and immediately understand the most likely
lower time frame scenarios that could have created that bar. In almost every case, there
are multiple possibilities, but some are much more likely than others. It is not necessary
to be 100 percent correct on this; sometimes we will simply guess wrong, but working
to develop this skill will greatly increase the trader’s intuitive grasp of price charts. For
instance, consider the single candle in Figure 1.11 with an empty body (meaning that
the close was higher than the open) and with moderately small shadows on the top and
bottom. There are three things we know with certainty about this candle: the close was
higher than the open; at some point, the market traded lower than the open; and, at some
point, it traded higher than the close.
Most people with a little bit of trading experience would assume the candle opened,
traded down to put in the low, trended up to make a high, and backed off to close under
FIGURE 1.11 A Candle Is a Snapshot in Time—How Was This Candle Formed?
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c01 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:17 Printer: Hamilton Printing
The Trader’s Edge 23
#1 #2 #3 #4
FIGURE 1.12 Some of the Many Possibilities of Lower Time Frame Action That Could Have
Produced Figure 1.11
that high. This is the most obvious possibility (scenario #1 in Figure 1.12), but there are
many others, some of which are also shown. Traders developing a sense for price action
need to spend a lot of time contemplating all of the lower time frame scenarios that
could produce each bar. Being locked into a single interpretation without considering
the context can blind us to what might really be going on in the market.
Though charts contain a lot of noise and random action, there are points where struc-
tures within individual bars, or a small set of bars, are very important. One simple pattern
to think about is that the location of the closing point relative to the high and the low of
the bar may give some insight into the buying or selling conviction within that bar. For
instance, a close near the high of the bar usually shows that buyers were in control going
into the end of the time period. Yes, there are other possibilities and patterns that could
have created the close near the high, but, more often than not, buyers were in control.
Conversely, closes near the middle of the bar, visible as long shadows on candle charts,
show a certain neutrality and lack of conviction. It is also worth considering the extreme
case where several bars in a row close on their absolute highs. Many traders would as-
sume that this is indicative of a very strong market, but, statistically, this condition more
often indicates short-term exhaustion and at least a slight reversal—be careful of enter-
ing with the trend after several bars close on their highs.
Trend and Trading Range Bars Large bars relative to recent bars on one time
frame most likely contain trends on the lower time frame, especially if the close and open
are near opposite ends of the bars. Small bars on one time frame are probably trading
ranges on lower time frames, and, in general, bars that have their opens and closes nearer
to the center point of the bar are also more likely to have been trading ranges. This is a
simple concept, but understanding this dynamic is a key to building intuition about price
action and the interaction of time frames. There is much subtlety here, but these are the
essential concepts. Figure 1.13 shows lower time frame trends and trading ranges within
the three boxes in the left panel that correspond to the three higher time frame bars in
the right panel. Do not accept price bars at face value. Always think deeply about what
is going on behind the scenes, on lower time frames.
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c01 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:17 Printer: Hamilton Printing
24 THE FOUNDATION OF TECHNICAL ANALYSIS
FIGURE 1.13 One- and 15-Minute S&P Bars, Showing Lower Time Frame Trading Range and Trend
within Higher Time Frame Bars
The right panel of Figure 1.14 shows a daily chart of the E-mini S&P 500 futures at
a time when the trend on that time frame was losing momentum. What are the signs on
this time frame that suggest a loss of momentum? Each bar continues to make a higher
high up into mid-April, but at a declining rate. We could characterize these as “reluctant
highs,” to indicate waning momentum. In addition, the bars are becoming smaller, in-
dicating that trading interest is drying up, and there are no more large trend bars (that
open near the lows and close near the highs) in April. On each of the multiple time frame
charts in this book, the lower time frame in the left pane expands on the highlighted area
of the higher time frame chart on the right. In this case, the lower time frame tells the
same story of loss of momentum, but in much more vivid detail. There are multiple fail-
ure tests above the highs, as the market spikes to new extremes and is unable to ﬁnd the
buying pressure to support itself there. Note that this reversal on the lower time frame
could simply be subsumed into a trading time frame consolidation, but the lower time
frame clearly shows the change in the buyers’ conviction.
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c01 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:17 Printer: Hamilton Printing
The Trader’s Edge 25
FIGURE 1.14 Three-Hour (Left Pane) and Daily S&P 500 Futures Charts
Notice that the lower time frame shows multiple tests and failures at the high. This level of resolution
is lost on the higher time frame, which simply shows a gently rounding top.
Many traders focus on trading pullbacks. A pullback (also called a ﬂag or consoli-
dation) is a move against the prevailing trend. For instance, a pullback in a downtrend
bounces against the trend and is an opportunity to enter a short position; a pullback in an
uptrend is a decline. Most traders train themselves to see these structures easily, but pull-
backs can also be hidden in higher time frames: one or two small bars that hold near the
extreme of a trend leg (near the lows in a downtrend or the highs in an uptrend) are often
a complete lower time frame pullback. As such, these simple one- or two-bar pullbacks
(high and tight ﬂags) are tradable structures in very strong trends, as in Figure 1.15. This
is a common and important pattern.
Another important pullback pattern in an uptrend has several bars with downward
closes separated by a single bar with an upward close. This pattern usually hides a com-
plex pullback on the lower time frame, which is a three-legged structure consisting of
an initial pullback followed by a small, failed attempt to resume the initial trend. From
that second leg, the market turns down again to make another countertrend leg that is
usually approximately as long as the ﬁrst one. This is a very common pattern, especially
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c01 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:17 Printer: Hamilton Printing
26 THE FOUNDATION OF TECHNICAL ANALYSIS
FIGURE 1.15 The Small Bars on the 15-Minute EURUSD Chart (Right Pane) Hide a More Signiﬁcant
Pullback on the 2-Minute Lower Time Frame
in extended trends, and will be explored in much more detail later. Figure 1.16 shows an
example of a two-legged complex pullback. On the higher trading time frame, it is not
so obvious and has to be inferred from the presence of one or two with-trend candles
in the middle of the pullback, but the complete structure is clearly visible on the lower
time frame.
One of the quantiﬁable tendencies of price motion is for markets to make directional
moves out of periods of contracted volatility. Even if the normal expectation for a market
is mean reversion and reversal (as it is in the short term for equities), there is usually at
least a slight edge for continuation out of areas of volatility compression. One simple
way to quantify volatility contraction is by looking for inside bars, which are bars whose
entire range is enclosed within the range of the previous bar—in other words, a bar
whose high is equal to or lower than the previous high and whose low is above or equal
to the previous low. A series of multiple inside bars on one time frame usually contains a
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c01 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:17 Printer: Hamilton Printing
The Trader’s Edge 27
FIGURE 1.16 The Daily Chart of X (Left Pane) Shows a Clear Two-Legged Complex Pullback
The weekly chart hints at this structure, but it must be inferred from the single upward-closing
candle in the middle of the pullback.
triangle on the lower time frame, which is a visual pattern that strongly suggests volatility
contraction. Trading within triangles is usually a losing proposition, as the market is in
equilibrium and the actual movement within the pattern is highly random. However, they
can set up good breakouts with expectations for strong, extended moves away from the
pattern. It is easy to overlook multiple inside bars (see Figure 1.17), but this is a powerful
and subtle pattern that is worth some attention.
The examples in this section were deliberately chosen to be less than perfect be-
cause it is important to start thinking about these concepts in the context of actual mar-
ket action, which is always less clear and noisier than we wish. Remember that charts
are artiﬁcial structures that we impose on market data. They are useful because they
organize the data, but we are always dealing with a trade-off between effective summa-
rization and loss of detail. There is no perfect answer, but many of the limitations can
be overcome if we work to constantly remember what the chart actually is, and to try to
understand the buying and selling pressure that each bar represents. The chart is not the
market; the chart is a representation of the market.
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c01 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:17 Printer: Hamilton Printing
28 THE FOUNDATION OF TECHNICAL ANALYSIS
FIGURE 1.17 Multiple Inside Bars on the Hourly Chart of the E-mini S&P 500 Futures (Right Pane)
Hide a Clear Lower Time Frame Triangle on the 10-Minute Chart
CHARTING BY HAND
I started trading in the 1990s, in the twilight years of the old, classic paper chart books. A
book would come in the mail at the beginning of the week, printed on newsprint; each day
it was up to the trader to track down prices for each of the markets and update the charts
by drawing a new price bar. At the beginning of the next week, a new book would arrive
with the past week’s prices ﬁlled in, and the process would repeat. Actually, in my very
early trading days I did not even have the chart book, but I bought a pad of graph paper,
went to the library, and started building charts from histories I found in back issues of
newspapers. I did not realize the value of what I was doing at the time, but this process
immersed me in patterns as they were emerging. There is something about physically
drawing lines that engages a different part of the brain than looking at a screen does.
Because of this work, I assimilated patterns quickly and developed a sense of the forces
at work behind the patterns early in my development. When you are drawing open, high,
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c01 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:17 Printer: Hamilton Printing
The Trader’s Edge 29
low, and close on each price bar, you will spend time during the day wondering what
new conﬁgurations could appear at the end of the day, and thinking about how the day’s
trading might unfold to create those patterns.
Most readers are probably shaking their heads and laughing at this point, thinking
that this is a quaint and hopelessly anachronistic practice, but I beg to differ. Modern
computer charting has the advantage of breadth. It would simply not be possible to re-
view a large number of charts every day without the aid of a computer to generate those
charts; however, there is still great value in pencil and paper. This is not a practice that
will reward you with immediate results and proﬁts; it works on a much deeper and more
profound level of perception, and it takes time. I would suggest that interested traders
commit to doing this for a period of not less than two months, consistently, and then
evaluate the impact of the exercise on your ability to read the market. I know of no bet-
ter exercise to help a developing trader assimilate the patterns of the market and to begin
building intuition. You will be amazed at the transformation in your vision.
There are two speciﬁc ways to do this exercise. One is to simply plot standard bar
or candle charts, by hand, for whatever time period is under consideration. Every trader
can at least do daily charts, but intraday traders might be able to do 15- to 30-minute time
frames. Lower time frames will give much more exposure to patterns, but the time for
contemplation is reduced. Above all, you want to pick a time frame that will allow you to
make an unfailing commitment to this exercise. Doing it for a few days and then giving
up will result in nothing but wasted time.
The other way is to construct a swing chart, which is also known as a kagi chart. In
this type of chart, vertical lines indicate price movement (along the y-axis of the chart),
while short horizontal lines illustrate the breaks between upswings and downswings.
These breaks are deﬁned according to some rule set, the speciﬁc choice of which is not
that important. Traditionally, you may look for a speciﬁc dollar or point amount of a
reversal off a high, and then ﬂip direction, as in a standard point and ﬁgure chart. For
instance, suppose a trader is working with a $1.00 reversal; if the stock trades up to
FIGURE 1.18 Example of Swing Charting (Kagi) by Hand
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c01 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:17 Printer: Hamilton Printing
30 THE FOUNDATION OF TECHNICAL ANALYSIS
$60.00 and then backs off to $59.25, this is only a $0.75 reversal off the high, so the only
line on the chart is currently a vertical line that stops at $60.00. If the market turns back
up from $59.25 and trades up to $65.00, that original line is now extended to $65.00 on the
chart. Assume now that the market falls back to $63.00, which exceeds the $1.00 reversal
threshold, so now a short horizontal line is plotted at $65.00 (the high of the previous
swing) to connect to the next downward vertical line, which now extends to $63.00.
This process is repeated, so the x-axis is not scaled for time or activity, but rather for
speciﬁc reversal amounts off previous swings. (Consider what this type of chart tells us
in relation to the previous discussions on pivots and length of swings.) It is also possible
to deﬁne the reversal with other tools, such as reversing a speciﬁc multiple of the average
range off the previous swing, J. Welles Wilder Jr.’s Parabolic SAR (stop and reverse),
moving average crossovers, or whatever trend indicator you ﬁnd appropriate. Figure 1.18
shows an example of this type of chart, drawn by hand. Do not underestimate the power
of this simple charting exercise.
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c02 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:22 Printer: Hamilton Printing
CHAPTER 2
The Market Cycle
and the Four Trades
To every thing there is a season, and a time to every purpose under
the heaven.
—Ecclesiastes 3:1, KJV
T
he early twentieth century was a time of great progress in markets and in thinking
about markets. There were giants on the earth in those days—legends like Jesse
Livermore, old man J. P. Morgan, Bernard Baruch, and Charles Dow. In this fertile
environment, Richard Wyckoff developed his understanding of markets and the trading
process through conversations and interviews with these master traders. After amassing
a sizable personal fortune in the markets, he laid out his system in a set of correspon-
dence courses, as was the practice of the day, to educate the public and to help them
avoid the scams and frauds that were so prevalent at the time. Referring to the Wyck-
off method is a bit of a misnomer, for he offered no simple system or one way to trade.
Rather, Wyckoff created a method for understanding the buying and selling convictions
of very large traders and institutions through the patterns their activity left on prices. If
the smaller trader could recognize the signs they left in the market, he could align his po-
sitions with their activity and interests; in the end, it is the buying and selling pressure of
these large pools of money that actually moves the markets. This method is as powerful
and as relevant today as it was a hundred years ago.
Wyckoff proposed a four-stage market cycle. His idea was that the cycle resulted
from the actions of these large players who planned their operations in the market to
take advantage of the uneducated public’s inappropriate reactions to price movement,
but we also see evidence of this cycle in the price patterns of assets such as medieval
commodity prices; stocks in early, unsophisticated markets; or trading on very short
time frames. It is unlikely that there is the same intervention and manipulation in all of
these cases, so the Wyckoff cycle may simply be an expression of the normal ways in
which human psychology expresses itself in the marketplace.
31
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c02 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:22 Printer: Hamilton Printing
32 THE FOUNDATION OF TECHNICAL ANALYSIS
WYCKOFF’S MARKET CYCLE
In this brief introduction, we will consider three aspects of each phase of the cycle. First,
we will try to understand the market using a simpliﬁed model focusing on the psycho-
logical perspective of two major groups: the smart money players who are assumed to
be driving the market, and the general, uninformed public. Second, we will consider the
crowd psychology of the public, and how individuals are naturally inclined to make mis-
takes that work in favor of the smart money. Last, we will begin to consider the dis-
tinctions and patterns of each part of the cycle from a pure price-pattern perspective;
this analysis is important because it motivates and provides context for many trading
patterns and methods.
Figure 2.1 presents this cycle in a simple, idealized format. The four phases are:
1. Accumulation: A sideways range in which large players buy carefully and skillfully,
without moving the price. The public is unaware of what is going on; the market is
off the radar and out of the public focus while under accumulation.
2. Markup: The classic uptrend. At this point, the public becomes aware of the price
movement, and their buying serves to propel prices higher. Smart money players who
bought in the accumulation phase may sell some of their holdings into the strength
of the uptrend, or they may just hold and wait for higher prices.
3. Distribution: Eventually, the uptrend ends and the market enters a distribution
phase in which the smart money players sell the remainder of their holdings to the
public who are still generally anticipating higher prices. Really smart money players
might even sell more than they own and go short in this range.
4. Markdown: The downtrend that follows distribution. Smart money players who are
short will buy back some of their shorts into this weakness. Eventually, the public re-
alizes that higher prices are not in their future, so they panic and sell their positions.
This panic, more often than not, marks the end of the downtrend.
Accumulation
Distribution
MarkdownMarkup
FIGURE 2.1 The Classic Wyckoﬀ Cycle
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c02 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:22 Printer: Hamilton Printing
The Market Cycle and the Four Trades 33
Accumulation—Building a Base
Accumulation is the ﬁrst stage of the cycle; large operators (funds, banks, other institu-
tions, or even large individual traders) buy without alerting the public to their intentions.
This is actually very difﬁcult to do, as buying pressure will naturally support and even
raise prices. These players must buy slowly and generally passively over a long period
of time to build their positions. From a technical perspective, prices move sideways in
a trading range bounded by rough areas of support and resistance, an intermediate-term
moving average is ﬂat, and price chops back and forth on both sides of that moving aver-
age. As we mentioned earlier, these conditions are indicative of a market in equilibrium,
and most technical traders should avoid trading price action like this. However, Wyck-
off argues that this is precisely the goal of the longer-term players. They are working
very hard to make this look like a market in equilibrium, but it is not. There is a subtle
imbalance as smart money is buying and accumulating positions in preparation for the
coming uptrend.
There are a few important points to keep in mind about a market in accumulation.
First, there is the obvious play of positioning in the accumulation area with the smart
money; in most cases this is essentially a higher time frame play. The line between trad-
ing and investing can become somewhat blurred if the technical trader plays in these
areas, but the key difference is that traders remain alert for signs that the accumulation
has failed. If contradictory price action and market structure emerge, they will exit their
positions, while investors will usually wait for lagging fundamentals to signify that some-
thing has changed. This leads to the second point, which is that accumulation areas are
usually not simple plays in actual practice. It is difﬁcult to time the precise beginning
and end of these areas, and the limits of the range are often not cleanly deﬁned. Traders
paying breakouts above the range, or stopping out of their positions below the range, will
often ﬁnd themselves executing at exactly the wrong points as they react to price spikes
in the noisy range. This is what the market action is designed to do in these areas, so do
not play this game.
There are some price patterns and clues we typically see associated with classic
accumulation. The most common of these is what Wyckoff called a spring, which is
called a failure test at the bottom of the range in modern terminology. To understand
this pattern, think of it from the perspective of the large players accumulating inventory
in the range. If these large buyers were to go into the market and buy aggressively, that
buying pressure would be a signiﬁcant portion of the market activity. The market would
almost certainly explode higher, which is not what the large players want at this point. It
is critical that they measure their buying activity over a long period of time so that they
do not lift prices; it is a game of deception. If these large players discover that they can
consistently get ﬁlled near the bottom of the range (where the market is cheapest), they
might buy even more slowly to see if the prices would decline even further. Low prices
are good for these players, who are trying to accumulate large positions at the lowest
possible price. What if they wanted to judge the other market participants’ interest in
the stock? Perhaps they might stop buying altogether and let the market fall under its
own weight.
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c02 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:22 Printer: Hamilton Printing
34 THE FOUNDATION OF TECHNICAL ANALYSIS
From this point, there are two different scenarios that they would be watching for.
In one, the market drops and keeps dropping, and they see that the rest of the market
really has no conviction or interest. Depending on their plan for the campaign, this might
or might not affect their decision to continue buying. Perhaps they are very happy to buy
the market even lower, or perhaps it is weaker than they expected and they might have to
slowly unwind their positions. Large players like these do not take signiﬁcant losses very
often, but they are also not always right. The other possibility is that they stop buying and
the market falls, but other buyers immediately step in and arrest the decline. In this case,
the large players just got an important piece of information: there is underlying buying
interest in the market.
Keep in mind that these types of buyers, and so this type of price action, tend to
be very large and very slow moving. These are usually institutions that may buy many
times the stock’s average daily trading volume, so most of these plays develop on an
almost glacial scale; but, even so, there are critical inﬂection points that can be deﬁned
in minutes or seconds. These drops below the bottom of the accumulation range are
examples of speciﬁc points in time that require attention and focus.
The presence of other buyers just under the level where the institutions were buying
telegraphs real interest. The large player would probably be compelled to immediately
resume their buying plan, working very hard to not spook the market. Again, it is a game
of deception. If enough players sense the buying pressure, the market will explode into
an uptrend, and the large players do not want this until they have accumulated their full
line. This type of activity leaves a distinctive and important pattern on a price chart: it
will be clear that the market has deﬁned a support area and that price has probed below
that support, but that the market spent very little time there because buyers immediately
stepped in and pressed the market higher. This is one pattern that candlestick charts can
highlight well. Candles with long shadows extending below support but with few or no
closes below that support are a sign of accumulation. If we were to look inside the can-
dles on a lower time frame, we would see that most of those excursions below support
lasted less than a quarter of the time frame of each candle (i.e., a daily chart spends at
most a few hours below support, an hourly chart less than 15 minutes, etc.). Figure 2.2
shows an accumulation area in daily October 2010 Platinum futures. The dotted line is
not an exact level, but notice that only candle shadows touch the area—the market is
unable to close near the level. Also, the bar marked A is a classic Wyckoff spring, which
is a bar that tests below a level and immediately ﬁnds buyers. In this case, the price
movement off this day led to a multimonth rally.
This is an important lesson about putting chart patterns in context. A simple statisti-
cal test of candles with long lower shadows would ﬁnd that there is no predictive power
to that pattern, but when a market is potentially in accumulation, the presence of these
springs can distinctly tilt the probabilities in favor of the upside. Everything we do as
traders is a matter of shifting probabilities. We deal in probabilities, not certainties, but
the position and context of the higher time frame can often provide warning that a mar-
ket could be under accumulation, lending more importance to these lower time frame
patterns. Notice also that this is a subtle pattern. Though these are not exciting patterns,
they are important and contribute to a trader’s overall read on the market’s action. It is
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c02 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:22 Printer: Hamilton Printing
The Market Cycle and the Four Trades 35
FIGURE 2.2 Accumulation in Daily Platinum Futures with a Classic Spring at A
also worth considering that what I am presenting here is an idealized and simpliﬁed per-
spective on a market in accumulation. In actual practice, these patterns are often much
more complex and obscured by noise.
From a longer-term perspective, crowd psychology is simple and easy to understand
while a market is in accumulation. If the smart money operators are accumulating well
and doing their job right, the public simply does not care about the market. The distin-
guishing psychological feature of a market in accumulation is that it is off the public’s
radar; no one is thinking about it or talking about it. No journalist writes an article about
a market in sideways consolidation, and no one talks about such markets on television.
They are invisible and boring; only smart, professional traders know to watch for these
formations. At some point, unobserved and unnoticed, the accumulation breaks to the
upside and the stock moves into the next phase of the cycle.
Markup: The Classic Uptrend
The second part of the cycle is the uptrend (markup), and the action of the smart money
is not as clearly deﬁned here. Perhaps the institutions may simply hold their full line un-
til the stock is marked up to prices at which they consider it advantageous to sell, or
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c02 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:22 Printer: Hamilton Printing
36 THE FOUNDATION OF TECHNICAL ANALYSIS
perhaps they will actively buy and sell with the ﬂuctuations of the trend. The public psy-
chology in an uptrend is a subject for study in and of itself. Usually, trends begin out of
accumulation and there is little attention from the public. Trends begin in sneaky, unno-
ticed ways, but, at some point, the price advances far enough that people start to take
notice. The classic ﬁrst reaction is disbelief, followed by a desire to fade (go against) the
move. If Wheat futures have been locked in a $1.00 range for a couple of years, most
people are apt to regard a price $0.50 above that range as too high and will be inclined
to short, thinking the aberration will correct itself. This price movement will still not
be in focus in the major media, but, when people do talk about it, they will almost uni-
versally observe that “fundamentals do not support this move” and there are also many
narrative factors that suggest “the risk is too high to consider buying up here.” At the
beginning of trends, the prevailing mind-set from the public is usually that the trend is
somehow wrong.
As the trend grinds higher, the early, aggressive shorts will be forced to cover, and
their buying pressure will, in turn, push the market higher. (Here is a clear example
where short sellers are actually a source of signiﬁcant buying pressure; things are never
as simple as they seem, and regulatory pressures to curb short selling are naive and mis-
directed at best.) The public’s initial disbelief slowly turns into acceptance, and people
start buying every dip in an attempt to position themselves with the trend that is now ob-
vious and fully underway. If the trend continues, there may be news stories in the major
media featuring the trend, but talking heads will still be divided on the subject. Some will
have switched their bearish bias, observing that the market is simply going up, perhaps
“climbing the wall of worry” put up by other commentators who still insist the movement
cannot be justiﬁed by the fundamentals. If you are positioned long in such a trend, this
is good—the division of opinion is fuel for the ﬁre. You want dissenting opinions at this
point in the market cycle.
We will spend an entire chapter reﬁning our understanding of the characteristic fea-
tures of price action in trends, but the basic pattern is a series of with-trend legs inter-
spersed with pullbacks, which are also called retracements. Trend traders usually focus
a lot of attention on the relationship of each trend leg and pullback to previous legs, in
terms of magnitude, length (time), and character (primarily referring to lower time frame
price action). Trading plans in trends usually involve either buying into the pullbacks or
buying breakouts to new highs as the trend continues higher.
Though there have been many attempts, no one has found a reliable way to judge the
large-scale psychology of market participants; however, an understanding of the emo-
tional cycle that drives trend moves is very important. Because market action is, at least
to some degree, the sum of many traders’ and investors’ hopes and fears, many people ob-
serve that price action often encourages traders to make mistakes. Markets often present
us with the temptation to do the wrong thing at the wrong time, and we will be lured into
doing so if we do not understand the psychology of the crowd. Understand this so that
you can stand apart from it. The emotional cycle of trends can be summarized as disbe-
lief, acceptance, and, eventually, consensus. When everyone agrees, the trend is usually
close to being over.
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c02 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:22 Printer: Hamilton Printing
The Market Cycle and the Four Trades 37
In some trends, mania sets in and things get a little crazy. Now, everyone will be
talking about the movement. All the pundits will be in agreement. Even though the mar-
ket may have appreciated several hundred percent in a year’s time, it is now obvious to
everyone that there is real demand and the situation is only going to get worse. There
will be dire calls of shortages and claims that increased global demand cannot possibly
be met by supply. Common sense goes out the window and people do not recognize the
signiﬁcance of the most basic fundamental factors, or, more accurately, they do not un-
derstand how fundamental factors change. For instance, in the case of an agricultural
commodity, there will be news stories about how the world is running out of the com-
modity, probably a story here and there about some blight that will destroy the crop
on one continent or another, and what are basically calls for the end of the world. For
some reason, no one will notice that farmers just planted three times the acreage that
was planted in the previous year—the invisible hand is funny like that. Though the manic
uptrend seems like an unstoppable force, something very interesting is about to happen:
this unstoppable force is about to meet the immovable object in the form of massive
supply coming online.
Here is an important lesson for the objective trader: your clue to the fact that psy-
chology has reached the mania stage is when stories begin to show up in the popular,
nonﬁnancial media. At times like that you have one job and one job only—detach your-
self from the mass psychology and begin to exit the market. At the very least, you must
book partial proﬁts and take steps to reduce the risk on your remaining line.
Distribution—The End?
Nothing goes on forever. At some point, higher prices will bring increased supply into
the market, balance is achieved, and prices will stop rising. From a technical perspective,
there are, broadly speaking, two ways this can happen. The manic blow-off end-of-trend
pattern just discussed is unusual, but deserves attention because it presents dramatic op-
portunities and dangers. More common is that the uptrend just runs out of steam, and the
market goes into another sideways trading range. The large operators who accumulated
positions in the ﬁrst stage and who held most of their line through the markup now begin
quietly selling their inventory to the public (distribution). In the accumulation phase, it
was important that they hide their buying so as to not cause the market to break into
an uptrend too early. Similarly, they must now sell carefully because too much selling
pressure could crack the market into a downtrend.
To the untrained eye, distribution areas are indistinguishable from accumulation
areas—they are both large, sideways ranges. However, on a more subtle level, we will
see that many of the classic signs of accumulation will not be present. When prices drop
below support, the market will not rebid quite as quickly. In general, prices may spend
more time hugging the bottom of the range; pressure against the top of the range is a
bit more common in accumulation. There may even be false breakouts of the top of the
range, leaving the candles with long shadows above the highs of the range. This pattern is
the opposite of the Wyckoff spring, and is usually called an upthrust. Eventually, prices
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c02 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:22 Printer: Hamilton Printing
38 THE FOUNDATION OF TECHNICAL ANALYSIS
will drop below support at the bottom of the range and will fail to bounce. The market
will roll over into the last phase, markdown.
Psychologically, the public is usually still hopeful when a market goes into distribu-
tion. They will seize every potential breakout as proof that a new uptrend is just around
the corner, and will usually look for any excuse to keep buying. Keep in mind that this
pattern occurs in markets that have just had substantial advances, so it is easy to say
things like “Look, this thing is up 50 percent year over year, the fundamentals are great,
and the Street obviously loves it.” Every dip is an opportunity to pick up additional shares
or contracts, which are now cheaper, so they are basically on sale. Who could pass up
such a great opportunity? The public, however, is blind to the subtle differences in pat-
terns that hint that another trend leg up might not be in the cards.
Trading real markets is not quite this simple. For one thing, markets in second-
phase uptrends will frequently enter fairly extended sideways ranges in the middle of the
trend. Should these be treated as further accumulation areas, in preparation for another
markup, or is the trend over and these are distribution areas? There are subtle clues in
market structure and price action, but it is not always possible to make an accurate judg-
ment in real time. Looking back, or at the middle of a chart, the answer is obvious, but
it will not be so obvious at the hard right edge. Even with the best analysis and trading
plan, we will simply make the wrong decision sometimes, so any good trading plan will
focus on risk management ﬁrst.
Markdown: The Bear Market
The last stage is markdown, which, in many ways, is the inverse of the markup. Psycho-
logically, if the market has been in a protracted distribution phase, the public will most
likely have lost some interest. Some traders will be optimistic, and will plan to “get back
in” whenever it moves, but, in general, the public focuses on the same things the major
media do: hot markets that are moving. These traders will easily be able to justify buying
new highs above the distribution area, as this is how another trend leg would begin. They
also will be able to justify buying breakdowns below the distribution area, because the
market would be cheaper (on sale?) at those levels. The level of interest will probably be
relatively low because the public usually focuses on markets that move, but the general
tone will likely be very positive. After all, everyone is now in agreement that the market
is going higher, right?
Real downtrends begin out of this environment of optimism or complacency. Even-
tually, it becomes clear that the declines are a little steeper than expected, and some
longs begin to unwind their positions, adding to the selling pressure. The mood of the
market changes from optimism to disappointment, and aggressive shorts may even be-
gin to show some teeth as they make larger proﬁts on each successive decline. Bounces
fall short of previous highs, and people begin to sell even more aggressively. At some
point, everyone becomes convinced that the company is going out of business or that
commodity is “done” or the currency will never rally, and that the correct play is to short
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c02 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:22 Printer: Hamilton Printing
The Market Cycle and the Four Trades 39
it into oblivion. As you might expect by now, such an emotional extreme more often than
not marks the very bottom, and the market stabilizes into accumulation in preparation
for the next uptrend.
Market structure and price action in a downtrend are not a perfect mirror image of
the ﬁrst stage, but the differences are subtle and difﬁcult to quantify. One of the major
pieces of received wisdom from old-school traders is that markets tend to go down much
faster than they go up. There is some truth to this, as volatility reliably expands on de-
clines in many markets, and there is also a subjective side to the analysis, as there is a
distinctly different feel to rallies in a bear market compared to sell-offs in a bull market.
Both structures are pullbacks in established trends, but there is a special kind of frantic-
ness and volatility that seems to be a unique attribute of bear markets. Bear market rallies
tend to be sharp and vicious, whereas pullbacks in bull markets are usually much more
orderly. There is a surprising degree of symmetry—most elements of uptrends and down-
trends are mirror images of each other (reﬂected around the y-axis), but most traders
also ﬁnd that a very different skill set is required to trade each environment. This may
explain why some traders avoid bear markets whereas others specialize in them.
The Cycle in Action
The structure laid out here was originally conceived around the equity markets and on
time frames ranging from months to years. It applies especially well there, but it also
has relevance to other markets and shorter time frames. Commodity markets tend to
follow a similar cycle, but the cycle in commodities is often driven by the production and
consumption cycle. Commodities, in general, tend to be a little more cyclical and more
prone to seasonal distortions, especially of volatility, than stock indexes are. Currency
markets tend to be a little less cyclical and tend to trend better than most other asset
classes over longer time frames. That said, there certainly are times when this cycle
does apply to the currency markets—for instance, in extreme situations accompanied by
emotional elation or stress.
The concept of fractal markets, as Mandelbrot and Hudson (2006) have written
about, is especially important when considering the Wyckoff cycle. Simply put, this
means that the same patterns appear in very long-term markets as in very short-term
markets. However, much of the academic work supporting this concept does not rec-
ognize that patterns may not be tradable on all time frames. It is not always possible
to trade 5-minute charts the same way as weekly charts, even though the patterns may
superﬁcially appear to be similar. In addition, not enough work has been done on the rela-
tionship of fractal markets and liquidity. In the shorter time frames, patterns are bounded
by liquidity. For instance, very active stocks might show fractal patterns down to the 15-
second time frame, while less liquid commodities or stocks might degenerate into noise
anywhere below the daily level.
So, it should be easy to make money trading this cycle, right? Find accumulation on
your chosen time frame. Buy. Wait for distribution. Sell and sell short. Cover shorts when
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c02 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:22 Printer: Hamilton Printing
40 THE FOUNDATION OF TECHNICAL ANALYSIS
the market goes back into accumulation. Repeat. Simple, right? Not so fast. Though this
cycle provides a useful road map and large-scale framework, there are many nontrivial
problems in actual application:
r Accumulation does lead to signiﬁcant advances, but it is difﬁcult to time entries out
of accumulation areas. Buying breakouts results in a string of small (or, depending
on your trade management discipline, not so small) losses that do add up.
r Buying within the accumulation area is not simple, as there are usually no clear risk
points. Setting stops under accumulation areas is usually wrong, because you want
to be buying those ﬂushes, not selling into them.
r Sometimes what looks like accumulation turns out to not be accumulation, the bot-
tom drops, and the market does not look back. Small losses can quickly become big
problems in this environment.
r Trading bull and bear trends (markup and markdown) is also not as simple as might
be expected. There are many tradable patterns in trends, as well as patterns that
suggest the trend is coming to an end, but it takes real skill to identify and to trade
these patterns.
r Markup periods often go into long, sideways ranges that may be either accumulation
or distribution. The pattern is not always accumulation→ uptrend → distribution; it
is sometimes accumulation → uptrend → accumulation, or some other variation.
And perhaps most importantly, remember that no trader is correct 100 percent of the
time, and being wrong means being on the wrong side of the market. Risk management
is essential to limit the damage on the times you are wrong.
THE FOUR TRADES
Wyckoff’s market cycle is a highly idealized view of market action, but it does lay the
foundation for a simple categorization of technical trades into four categories. There
are two trend trades: trend continuation and trend termination, and two support and
resistance trades: holding and failing. Though this may seem like an arbitrary classiﬁca-
tion system, it is not. Every technical trade imaginable falls into one of these categories.
Trades from certain categories are more appropriate at certain points in the market struc-
ture, so it is worthwhile to carefully consider your trades in this context.
The ﬁrst question to consider is: Are all of your trade setups in one category? If
so, this may not be a bad thing—a successful trading methodology must ﬁt the trader’s
personality—but most traders will have the best results when they have at least two
counterbalancing setups. For instance, a trader who focuses on breakout trades should
probably understand the patterns of failed breakouts. A trader who trades pullbacks in
trends should probably also be able to trade the patterns that occur at the ends of trends.
There are two reasons behind this suggestion. First, you should become intimately fa-
miliar with the patterns associated with the failure of the patterns you trade. The second
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c02 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:22 Printer: Hamilton Printing
The Market Cycle and the Four Trades 41
reason is related to self-control and psychology—there is an old saying: “If the only tool
you have is a hammer, every problem you encounter will look like a nail.” If you are
only a skilled breakout trader, you may ﬁnd it difﬁcult to wait for the excellent breakout
trades, and may try to force suboptimal patterns into this mold. If you have the freedom
and the skills to switch to the setups that match the market conditions, you will be a able
to adapt your trading skills to the market environment. There is certainly room for the
specialist who does one trade and does it very well, but many traders ﬁnd success with
a broader approach.
Some market environments favor certain kinds of plays over others. If you are a
trader who trades all categories, are you applying the right kind of plays to the right
market environments? For instance, do you ﬁnd yourself having many losing trades try-
ing to short against resistance levels in uptrends because you feel they have gone too
far? If so, your results might improve if you apply with-trend trades to those situations
and more carefully deﬁne the market environments that will reward your fading (go-
ing against the trend) of strength into resistance. Those environments exist—you just
aren’t ﬁnding them with your plays. If you are a specialist who focuses on only one setup
or pattern (and, to be clear, this is not a criticism if you are successful this way), then
you need to realize that only a few speciﬁc market environments favor your play and
wait for those environments. You can redeﬁne your job description to include not trad-
ing. Wait on the sidelines, and wait for the environments in which you can excel. Again,
those environments exist, but you probably are burning through a lot of mental and ﬁnan-
cial capital trying to ﬁnd them. Clarify your setups. Categorize them, and then simplify,
simplify, simplify.
Let’s look brieﬂy at each of the four broad categories and ask the following questions
from a general, high-level perspective:
r Which trade setups fall into this category?
r What are the associated probabilities, reward/risk proﬁles, and overall expectancies
of these trades?
r How do these trades fail?
Trend Continuation
Trend continuation plays are not simply trend plays or with-trend plays. The name im-
plies that we ﬁnd a market with a trend, whether a nascent trend or an already well-
established trend, and then we seek to put on plays in the direction of that trend. Perhaps
the most common trend continuation play is to use the pullbacks in a trend to position
for further trend legs. It is also possible to structure breakout trades that would be with-
trend plays, and there is at least one other category of trend continuation plays—trying
to get involved in the very early structure of a new trend. In the context of our simpliﬁed
stage model, trend continuation trades are most appropriate in markup or markdown,
but these early trend trades may be attempted where accumulation breaks into the up-
trend or where distribution breaks down into the new downtrend. If you are trading in
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c02 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:22 Printer: Hamilton Printing
42 THE FOUNDATION OF TECHNICAL ANALYSIS
these areas of uncertainty, it is important to not be stubborn. An aborted breakout of
accumulation into an uptrend may well be an upthrust, which is a sign of potential dis-
tribution. Listen to the message of the market and adjust accordingly.
Trend continuation plays tend to be high-probability plays because there is a ver-
iﬁable, statistical edge for trend continuation; these plays are aligned with one of the
fundamental principles of price behavior. It is important to have both the risk and the
expectation of the trade deﬁned before entry; this is an absolute requirement of any spe-
ciﬁc trade setup, but it can be difﬁcult with trend continuation trades. The key to deﬁning
risk is to deﬁne the points at which the trend trade is conclusively wrong, at which the
trend is violated. Sometimes it is not possible to deﬁne nonarbitrary points at which the
trend will be violated that are close enough to the entry point to still offer attractive re-
ward/risk characteristics. On the upside, the best examples of these trades break into
multileg trends that continue much further than anyone expected, but the most reliable
proﬁts are taken consistently at or just beyond the previous highs.
There are several common failure patterns associated with these types of trades.
First, there may simply not be enough with-trend pressure to push the market into an-
other trend leg, so previous resistance holds (in the case of an uptrend) and the market
rolls over into a trading range (or distribution). Traders trading simple pullbacks need to
be aware that many pullbacks in strong trends are complex, two-legged consolidations
(see Chapter 3), so a good trading plan will plan for that possibility. Dramatic failures of
these trades are somewhat uncommon, but they do happen. Most failed trend continua-
tion trades tend to be rather polite affairs, usually giving the trader a chance to get out for
a small loss. However, there is always danger when everyone is leaning the same way in
a market, and, especially in well-established trends, there are places where many market
participants have piled into a very obvious trend continuation play. In these situations,
especially in extremely overextended markets, reversals can be dramatic as everyone
scrambles for the exit at the same time.
Trend Termination
More than any other category, precise terminology is important here. If we were less
careful, we might apply a label like “trend reversal” to most of the trades in this category,
but this is counterproductive because it fails to precisely deﬁne the trader’s expectations.
If you think you are trading trend reversal trades, then you expect that a winning trade
should roll over into a trend in the opposite direction. This is a true trend reversal, and
these spots offer exceptional reward/risk proﬁles and near-perfect trade location. How
many traders would like to sell the high tick or buy the very low at a reversal? However,
true trend reversals are rare, and it is much more common to sell somewhere near the
high and to then see the market stop trending. Be clear on this: This is a win for a trend
termination trade—the trend stopped. Anything else is a bonus, so it is important to
adjust your expectations accordingly.
The obvious spots in the cycle for trend termination trades are where the uptrend
stops and moves into distribution, and vice versa on the downside, but there are other
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c02 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:22 Printer: Hamilton Printing
The Market Cycle and the Four Trades 43
possibilities. Some traders specialize in ﬁnding overextended spots in established trends,
and fading (going against the trend) these for a very quick and short reversal. For in-
stance, a trader might ﬁnd spots where the rallies in the uptrend have run up too far too
fast, and take short positions against those rallies, planning to cover one to three bars
later. These are trades for only the fastest and most nimble traders; developing traders
are well advised to avoid these countertrend scalps because they remove focus from the
big picture. Staying in a consistent time frame is important for these deﬁnitions; a trader
might look for spots where the short-term downtrends (pullbacks) in the uptrend have
overextended themselves, and then take long positions against those lower time frame
downtrends. In this case, the trader is actually positioning countertrend on the lower
time frame but with the trend on the trading time frame. Is this a trend continuation or
trend termination trade? The answer depends on your perspective and your time frame,
and it is only important to be consistent. Understand what you are trying to accomplish
with the trade and how this best ﬁts in the evolving market structure.
Trend termination plays are not usually high-probability plays, but the compensation
is that winning trades tend to offer potential rewards much larger than the initial risk. If
your patterns allow you to position short near the absolute high point of a trend leg with
some degree of conﬁdence, then you have a well-deﬁned risk point and the potential for
outsized proﬁts on some subset of these trades. Over a large enough sample size, the
risk/reward proﬁle may be very good, leading to a solid positive expectancy even if most
of these trades are losers.
Trend termination trades are countertrend (counter to the existing trend) trades, and
trade management is an important issue. Most really dramatic trading losses, the kind
that blow traders out of the water (and that don’t involve options) come from traders
fading trends and adding to those positions as the trend continues to move against them.
If this is one of the situations where the trend turns into a manic, parabolic blow-off,
there is a real possibility for a career-ending loss on a single trade. For swing traders,
there will sometimes be dramatic gaps against positions held countertrend overnight,
so this needs to be considered in the risk management and position sizing scheme. More
than any other category of trade, iron discipline is required to trade these with any degree
of consistency.
Support or Resistance Holding
There is some overlap between these categories, and it is possible to apply trades from
these categories in more than one spot in the market structure. We might expect that
most support/resistance trades will take place in accumulation or distribution areas
while the market chops sideways, but a trader trading with-trend trades could initiate
those trades by buying support in the trend. Are these trend continuation trades or sup-
port holding trades? The answer is both, so traders must build a well-thought-out classiﬁ-
cation system that reﬂects their approach to the market. Your trading patterns and rules
are the tools through which you structure price action and market structure, and they
must make sense to you. Take the time to deﬁne them clearly.
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c02 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:22 Printer: Hamilton Printing
44 THE FOUNDATION OF TECHNICAL ANALYSIS
It is easy to ﬁnd examples of well-deﬁned trading ranges on historical charts where
you could buy and risk a very small amount as the market bounces off the magic price
at the bottom of the range. These trades do exist, but they are a small subset of support
holding trades. Support, even when it holds, usually does not hold cleanly. The dropouts
below support actually contribute to the strength of that support, as buyers are shaken
out of their positions and are forced to reposition when it becomes obvious that the
drop was a fake-out. For the shorter-term trader trading these patterns, there are some
important issues to consider. If you know that support levels are not clean, how will you
trade around them? Will you sell your position when the level drops, book many small
losses, and reestablish when it holds again? Will you simply position small in the range,
plan to buy more if it drops, and accept that you will occasionally take very large losses
on your maximum size when the market does drop? If you are scaling in, how will you
deal with the fact that your easy wins will not be on your full size, as you did not have
the opportunity to buy your full line near the bottom of the range? By the time you see
the support level is holding, the market will already be far from the level, increasing the
size of the stop loss needed.
Because of these issues, support/resistance holding trades, as a group, tend to have
the lowest reward/risk ratios. By deﬁnition, at support, there is an imbalance of buying
pressure that creates the support, but the market is usually in relative equilibrium just
above that support. Most traders will try to avoid trading in these equilibrium areas, so
many support holding trades set up in suboptimal trading environments. It is worth men-
tioning that there is a special subset of support/resistance holding trades that actually
are very high-probability trades: failed breakouts. Remember, when everyone is leaning
the wrong way, the potential for dramatic moves increases greatly, and nowhere is that
more true than in a failed breakout.
Support or Resistance Breaking or Failing
Support/resistance breaking trades are the classic breakout or breakout from channel
trades and, ideally, would be located at the end of accumulation or distribution phases.
In fact, these trades actually deﬁne the end of accumulation or distribution, as the
support or resistance fails and the market breaks into a trend phase. Another place for
support/resistance breaking trades is in trends, but many of these are lower time frame
breakout entries into the trading time frame trending pattern. Many traders, especially
daytraders, ﬁnd themselves drawn to these patterns because of the many examples
where they work dramatically well. Many trading books show example after example
of dramatic breakouts, but there is one small problem with breakout trades—most
breakouts fail.
In addition, the actual breakout areas tend to be high-volatility and low-liquidity ar-
eas, which can increase the risk in these trades. They occur at very visible chart points,
and so they are often very crowded trades. The presence of unusual volume and volatil-
ity can create opportunities, but it also creates dangers. Execution skills probably mat-
ter more here than in any other category of trade, as slippage and thin markets can
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c02 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:22 Printer: Hamilton Printing
The Market Cycle and the Four Trades 45
signiﬁcantly erode a trader’s edge. These trades can offer outstanding reward/risk pro-
ﬁles, but, especially in short-term trades, it is important to remember that realized losses
can sometimes be many multiples of the intended risk, signiﬁcantly complicating the
position sizing problem. This is not a fatal ﬂaw, but it must be considered in your risk
management scheme.
Depending on the time frame and intended holding period for the trade, it may be
possible to ﬁnd that there are patterns that precede and set up the best examples of these
trades. The best resistance breaking trades will be driven by large-scale buying imbal-
ances, and these imbalances usually show, for instance, as the market holds higher lows
into the resistance level before the actual breakout. Breakouts driven by small traders
who are simply trying to scalp small proﬁts in the increased volatility are less reliable
and are usually not set up by these larger-scale patterns. In the very best examples of
these trades, buyers who are trapped out of the market by the suddenness of the break-
out will be compelled to buy into the market over coming days or weeks, and this buying
pressure will provide favorable tailwinds for the trade. Traders specializing in breakout
trades usually spend a lot of time studying the patterns that set up the best trades, and
maintain a watch list of potential candidates for trades at any time. Executing unplanned
breakout trades in a reactive mode is unlikely to be a formula for long-term success.
SUMMARY
These four categories of trades provide an excellent framework for thinking about tech-
nical trades. This is a simple, valid, and consistent labeling scheme, and it is nearly im-
possible to ﬁnd a technical trade that does not ﬁt within these categories. Many trades
may ﬁt into more than one, especially when the complexities of multiple time frames are
considered, but this does not compromise the utility of the system. This is not intended
to be a rigid, artiﬁcial classiﬁcation system, but rather a dynamic framework that can
grow and evolve with your trading style and your understanding of market behavior.
Not to wax too philosophical, but there is another way to think about this cycle.
Some branches of Eastern philosophy believe that every manifest thing we see, feel, or
experience in any way comes from the interaction of two opposing, primordial forces.
These philosophies tell us that one force can never fully overcome the other, and, when
one seems to predominate, it contains within itself the seed of the other. In the market,
buying and selling pressure are these twin opposing forces. When buying pressure seems
to be strongest, the end of the uptrend trend is often near. When the sellers seem to be
decisively winning the battle, the stage is set for a reversal into an uptrend. This is why
it is so important for traders to learn to stand apart from the crowd, and the only way to
do this is to understand the actions and the emotions of that market crowd.
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c02 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:22 Printer: Hamilton Printing
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c03 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:26 Printer: Hamilton Printing
PART II
Market Structure
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c03 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:26 Printer: Hamilton Printing
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c03 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:26 Printer: Hamilton Printing
CHAPTER 3
On Trends
Don’t ﬁght forces, use them.
—R. Buckminster Fuller
M
arket movements can create a bewildering number of patterns and variations
of patterns. Simple structures take on different meanings depending on context,
and patterns sometimes develop and resolve in unexpected ways. Add to this the
complexities of the interactions of multiple time frames and related markets, and we end
up with a seemingly inﬁnite number of possibilities. The human mind needs some kind of
structure to help process information, so various solutions have been proposed by differ-
ent schools of technical analysis. The classic chart patterns (head and shoulders, double
top, pennant, ﬂag, wedge, etc.) are one attempt at providing structure. Other solutions
have been proposed, ranging from in-depth quantitative analysis to the various schools
of wave and cycle analysis; these, and many other approaches, work for some traders.
All of these offer valuable perspectives, but let us turn our attention to a simple, robust
framework that focuses on the fundamental price structures created by price trends.
THE FUNDAMENTAL PATTERN
What I am presenting here is not new; I owe a tremendous debt to the authors and
traders who have come before me. No signiﬁcant intellectual construct emerges ex
nihilo—anything of value rests on a foundation built by someone else. In the case of
trend structure, Tony Plummer (2010) has written about the basic trend pattern, which
he calls the “price pulse,” with clarity and in-depth. This simple, fundamental trend pat-
tern is found at the core of even elaborate methodologies, like Gann or Elliott, when
they are stripped to bare essentials. This pattern, very simply, is how markets move, and
49
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c03 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:26 Printer: Hamilton Printing
50 MARKET STRUCTURE
A
B
C
DA
B
C
D
FIGURE 3.1 The Fundamental Trend Pattern: Impulse, Retracement, Impulse in an Uptrend and
a Downtrend
it is a profoundly powerful concept. The fundamental pattern of market movement on
all time frames is this: a movement in one direction, a countertrend retracement in the
other direction, and another leg in the original direction. Visually, these movements are
often labeled with letters, as in Figure 3.1.
This is a very rough schematic structure, but it is a powerful pattern that repeats on
all time frames. Whether we look at trends spanning decades or seconds, we will ﬁnd this
same impulse, retracement, impulse structure, though the psychological signiﬁcance of
the pattern will vary depending on the time frame. It is also reasonable to ask why this
structure should exist at all, and there are several possible answers. Put yourself in the
shoes of a trader who has to buy a signiﬁcant amount of an asset in a very short time.
Your primary objective is to get the order done without having a large impact on prices.
How might this best be done?
The best option in most cases is to buy a little bit, wait so that you don’t move the
market too much, then buy some more, and repeat until the order is completely ﬁlled.
This is how good execution traders work large orders. Smart traders (or smart algo-
rithms) will judge how to plan their buying by the market’s response to their orders. In
this way, they are judging the supply or the selling conviction hanging over the market.
A single trader executing an order in a market otherwise composed of pure noise traders
would create some variation of this price pattern by trying to ﬁll a buy order through this
natural process.
There must be a ﬁrm theoretical foundation for anything in the market; you should
be able to clearly articulate why something should be the way it is. Market prices are the
result of buyers and sellers negotiating for prices, nothing more and nothing less. We do
not need to invoke some mystical force to create the patterns we see in the markets; they
are simply the result of buyers and sellers ﬁnding prices in a competitive environment.
This is also why the fundamental structures in the markets have not changed since an-
tiquity. Some of the earliest written records we have are price records from Phoenician
merchants, which paint a story of price movements very similar to those we see today,
albeit on a much slower scale.
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c03 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:26 Printer: Hamilton Printing
On Trends 51
FIGURE 3.2 Each Trend Leg Breaks Down into a Three-Legged Structure on the Next Lower
Time Frame
Fractal Markets
A fractal is a type of pattern in which the parts resemble the whole (see Mandelbrot and
Hudson 2006). Markets are fractal in nature, meaning that essentially the same patterns
appear on all time frames: Patterns on single-tick charts combine to form 1-minute bars.
The patterns on the 1-minute bars are the same as those on the single-tick bars, and
they combine to form the patterns on 5-minute bars. (The time frames are a convenient
but unavoidably arbitrary structure.) This pattern building continues all the way to daily,
weekly, monthly, and yearly patterns, which all contain essentially the same patterns.
Figure 3.2 shows a schematic example of how this might play out in the market.
Each trend leg is an impulse, retracement, impulse pattern, and each of those legs also
breaks down into the same pattern on the lower time frame. Though only three levels are
shown on the diagram, this structure theoretically extends down to the one-tick level.
Furthermore, the entire large structure in Figure 3.2 could be a setup leg for a trend on
the next higher time frame.
This is not an abstract concept, but an important tool to understand market struc-
ture. No pattern exists in the vacuum of a single time frame. The market is like a set of
Russian nesting matryoshka dolls—digging into one time frame will reveal similar struc-
tures nested on lower time frames, all the way down to the tick level. Understanding
this structure is a key component of building intuition about markets. Traders usually
focus on one speciﬁc time frame, but it is important to understand that the patterns of
the lower time frame actually create the patterns on the trading time frame, and that the
patterns on the trading time frame are inﬂuenced by evolving patterns on the next higher
time frame. In practice, the interactions of structures on lower time frames are usually
components of price action, while higher time frames are more likely to provide context
or motivation for market structure patterns within the trading time frame.
TREND STRUCTURE
We now turn to the structure of trends in a little more depth: how they start, how they
unfold, and how they come to an end. The presence of a trend suggests an imbalance of
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c03 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:26 Printer: Hamilton Printing
52 MARKET STRUCTURE
buying and selling pressure; it is this imbalance that actually drives the price change of
the trend, and the trend will eventually end when the market ﬁnds equilibrium at a new
price level. It is extremely important to be able to read the trend structure and to know
what patterns support a continued imbalance or what patterns indicate that the trend
might be coming to an end.
Using Indicators
This section will also use the indicators that I have found most useful in actual trad-
ing: modiﬁed Keltner channels set 2.25 multiples of the Average True Range (ATR)
around a 20-period exponential moving average, and a modiﬁed moving average conver-
gence/divergence (MACD). These tools are examined in detail in Chapter 7 and Appendix
B, but the focus here will be on actually using them to delineate market structure in a
discretionary context. If you prefer a diﬀerent set of indicators, you will ﬁnd that these
same concepts can be adapted to a wide range of tools without loss of generality. For in-
stance, most of the Keltner concepts can also apply to Bollinger bands or even to simple,
static percentage bands around a moving average. Most momentum indicators (e.g., rate
of change [ROC], Commodity Channel Index [CCI], standard MACD, or some applications
of the stochastic oscillator) can be used more or less like the modiﬁed MACD.
Impulse and Momentum
The ﬁrst leg (AB) of the basic structure is often called a momentum move or an impulse
move. In an uptrend, this is a relatively sharp advance driven by buying pressure (de-
mand) overcoming existing selling pressure (supply) and creating a lack of liquidity on
one side of the market. After a market has been locked in an extended trading range with
no clear momentum, the emergence of a sharp momentum move penetrating one side
of the range is often a sign that there is a new imbalance of buying or selling pressure.
Figure 3.3 shows an example of a new trend emerging in the 30-year Treasury bond fu-
tures. Notice a few things about this pattern: ﬁrst, it is not subtle. Even someone with no
chart-reading experience would recognize that the right side of the chart shows a break
in the existing pattern. Next, notice that prices were able to penetrate through the upper
channel, though the last bar of the chart is somewhat suggestive of a short-term climax.
Last, the fast line of the MACD registered a new momentum high. (This idea will be ex-
plored in Chapter 7, but essentially, the MACD made a new high reading relative to its
recent values.)
Figure 3.4 shows an example of a downtrend emerging in the intraday Standard &
Poor’s (S&P) 500 futures. In this case, a large downward-closing 5-minute bar penetrates
the lower channel, and spikes the MACD to a signiﬁcant new low. This brings up an
important idiosyncrasy of the MACD: the indicator is calculated from moving averages,
which smooth and lag prices, so the indicator also lags price movements. It is important
to understand this and to understand the picture you would have seen at the time. (Lay
a piece of paper over the chart to hide everything to the right of the price spike, and
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c03 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:26 Printer: Hamilton Printing
On Trends 53
FIGURE 3.3 Thirty-Year Treasury Bond Futures, November 2008
Strong momentum emerges at the right side of the chart, penetrating the upper channel and spiking
the MACD to a new high.
then slide it to the right to reveal one bar at a time to see the response of the indicator.)
Also, notice that both of these cases are very clear, and that the indicator is somewhat
redundant because the information is already clearly visible in the price structure.
Impulse moves drive trends. As long as each trend leg extends in a momentum move
approximately consistent with previous moves, the probabilities favor buying the next
pullback for another trend high, or, in the case of a downtrend, shorting the pullbacks
for another run at the lows. What you do not want to see in a trend is the emergence of
sharp contratrend momentum on one of the pullbacks. Figure 3.5 shows an example in
which very sharp downward momentum emerged on a pullback in Sugar futures. Notice
that this pullback completely broke the established trend pattern, and spiked the MACD
to a sharp new low, which is not consistent with an intact uptrend. Though it is important
to understand the subtle clues the market gives us, sometimes the most important ones
are very obvious. There is no point trying to trade with the uptrend after an event like
this; it is safe to assume the trend is broken until further notice.
Remember, the normal pattern in an established trend is that each setup leg is a mo-
mentum move, and the subsequent extensions also function as momentum moves setting
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c03 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:26 Printer: Hamilton Printing
54 MARKET STRUCTURE
FIGURE 3.4 Five-Minute S&P 500 Futures, December 7, 2010
A large downward price spike (marked with an arrow on the chart) sets oﬀ an extended downtrend.
up the next trend leg. Economics 101 tells us that increased demand in a market will lift
prices as the market tries to ﬁnd a new market-clearing price; this description of trend
movement is one of the mechanisms through which that adjustment happens. Eventually,
higher prices will bring enough sellers into the market that a new, perhaps temporary,
equilibrium is achieved. Astute technical traders can usually see clues to this process
in the market tape. The most important patterns are: new momentum highs or lows,
subsequent trend legs making similar new impulse moves, and the absence of strong
countertrend momentum on pullbacks.
Climaxes
Buy pullbacks following an upward impulse move, or short bounces after strong selling
impulse moves. That, in a nutshell, is a very effective plan for trading trends. Simple,
right? Not so fast—there is a potential complication, and it is one of the most signiﬁcant
problems in technical analysis. It is true that there should be follow-through (range ex-
pansion) in the direction of previous impulse moves; however,extremely strong impulse
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c03 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:26 Printer: Hamilton Printing
On Trends 55
FIGURE 3.5 Sugar Futures, November 2010—Two Large Downward Closing Days Break the
Trend Pattern
moves are more indicative of climax or exhaustion. This is one of the common ways
that trends end, so it is important to fully understand these patterns.
Figure 3.6 shows a classic example of a buying climax that ended a trend in silver
futures. A naive trader might have noticed this action and read it as extreme strength.
However, in these types of formations a type of short-term mania sets in as emotional
buyers chase the market higher and higher. At some point, the last buyer who wants to
buy has bought, and the market becomes extremely vulnerable to a sell-off. The slightest
pause or speed bump will send a market like this crashing back into the vacuum on
the other side, as there is no more natural buying pressure underneath the market. In
addition, there may even be traders who bought into the last trend leg, and they are
now the ultimate weak-hand longs. As soon as the pattern changes and real momentum
emerges to the downside, they will run for the exits en masse, and their selling pressure
will add fuel to the ﬁre. Note the classic signs of a buying climax in this example: an
accelerated trend rate, large range bars, manyfree bars (bars with a low above the upper
channel), and a subsequent collapse.
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c03 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:26 Printer: Hamilton Printing
56 MARKET STRUCTURE
FIGURE 3.6 Daily Silver Futures, May 2011—A Near-Perfect Example of a Buying Climax
This type of structure is often called a parabolic move or a blow-off. Notice also
that the range of the bars in the blow-off becomes much larger than previous bars as the
trend steepens and the bars pull away from the average; this is a reﬂection of expanded
volatility, speciﬁcally intraday volatility. There will also often be a very large volume
spike near the extreme of the climax move. It is not uncommon to see bars that trade four
or ﬁve times the average volume for the instrument, but this information is also mirrored
in lower time frame price action and volatility. Yet another common characteristic is that
many more bars close at or near their high in a buying climax and on their low in a selling
climax. This shows that the climactic conditions extend to the intraday (or intrabar if a
weekly or monthly chart) time frame as well, which are probably showing exhaustion
or climaxes on their own time frames. Last, it is extremely unusual to see bars that are
completely outside the Keltner channels, called free bars; the presence of these bars is
another sign of potential climax.
The same pattern works symmetrically to the downside, as in Figure 3.7. In this par-
ticular example, the panic was not quite as extreme as the mania in Figure 3.6, and
traders might not have known until several weeks afterward that the market had bot-
tomed. However, the message to not short into the pullback following the climax selling
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c03 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:26 Printer: Hamilton Printing
On Trends 57
FIGURE 3.7 A Selling Climax in the EURJPY Following Multiple Downtrend Legs
was clear. A climax, by itself, is probably not enough information to justify assuming a
countertrend position (though it does have the advantage of deﬁning a clear risk point),
but it should at least put trend traders on notice. Do not enter pullbacks following poten-
tial climaxes.
Notice that these examples have come after extended, mature trend runs; a potential
climax out of a trading range is much more problematic. Climactic conditions can be de-
ﬁned only by their proportional relationship to recent market history. Volatility contracts
greatly in ranges, so any indicators measuring range expansion will also be skewed—in
other words, it takes a much smaller movement to make a climax pattern on a breakout
of a range. Furthermore, strong breakouts of ranges, even if they are apparently climac-
tic, usually see continuation, so these are difﬁcult trades, and it is probably best to look
for climaxes only after extended trends.
Figure 3.8 shows the Dow Jones Industrial Average (cash index) in the days fol-
lowing the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001. Even in
this exceptional example, with several days on which the stock market did not trade
due to the uncertainty following the attacks, the patterns of climax and exhaustion
are consistent. Markets move in response to emotion; robust technical tools quantify
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c03 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:26 Printer: Hamilton Printing
58 MARKET STRUCTURE
FIGURE 3.8 The Dow Jones Industrial Average Before and After the Terrorist Attacks of Septem-
ber 11, 2001
those movements and underlying emotions in ways that make them consistently read-
able, even in extreme examples. This chart captured a time of great turmoil, but even
so, the climax pattern is familiar: large ranges, parabolic expansion outside the bands,
many free bars (highs below the lower band), and many large bars that close on their
low. In this case, there was no clear upside momentum following the climax, but the sell-
ing climax should at least have been a warning to traders not to short into the following
pullback. In this case, the extreme reached in mid-September held as the low for over
a year.
Speaking of extreme situations, Figure 3.9 shows the Dow Jones Industrial Average
as it behaved during the crash of 1929. The patterns are essentially the same as we see in
any other climax situation, and the geometric relationships of the market to the moving
average and the channels are consistent with anything we would see in modern markets.
One of the challenges thrown up against technical analysis is that many authors claim
it is a self-fulﬁlling prophecy, as many traders are using the same tools and making the
same decisions. While this is completely rational, it is a ﬂimsy argument because many
technical tools and patterns work on periods of market history where no one was using
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c03 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:26 Printer: Hamilton Printing
On Trends 59
FIGURE 3.9 Dow Jones Industrial Average, Second Half of 1929
Note the same selling climax pattern.
them. No one in 1929 was using exponential moving averages or Keltner channels, yet
they would have been reliable tools. This is food for thought.
There is another point here, concerning expectations from technical patterns. Nei-
ther this 1929 climax low nor the 2001 climax low marked the ultimate low for the mar-
ket. In both cases the low was retested several times and failed to hold, albeit after the
market put in a substantial bounce. Do not assume that these climax patterns are nec-
essarily justiﬁcation to assume a countertrend position, but do use them as warnings to
lighten up or exit existing with-trend positions.
Climax patterns are important and can be extremely dangerous to traders who do
not understand how they work. We will revisit this structure several times and consider
speciﬁc trading patterns that can set up around them, but the key, for now, is that you
can identify the characteristic patterns of climaxes on charts and know to avoid getting
caught in the mania or the panic of the crowd. It is not possible to identify these areas
with 100 percent accuracy, and it is not always possible to separate climactic moves from
simple strength or weakness that should see continuation. Sometimes you will misjudge
and make the wrong decision; this is unavoidable, but be sensitive and responsive to this
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c03 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:26 Printer: Hamilton Printing
60 MARKET STRUCTURE
potential error and make adjustments as soon as possible. Do not trade in the direction
of blow-off climaxes.
To review, some of the most important characteristics of these areas are that they:
r Usually come after two or more trend legs in the same direction.
r Show an acceleration in the direction of the previous trend. Many analysts and
traders describe this as a market that has gone parabolic.
r Are relatively infrequent.
r Usually come at a signiﬁcant new high or low for the time frame being considered. It
is unusual to see climax moves in the middle of a range.
r Are conﬁrmed by the emergence of sharp contratrend momentum. If this does not
happen, the trend might simply be very strong.
r Vary in signiﬁcance. Small exhaustions into previous support and resistance are com-
mon, especially on lower time frames, and may not deﬁne important structural points
for the market on higher time frames.
Pullbacks
After a normal (nonclimactic) impulse move, the market will usually go into apullback or
retracement. A pullback is a countertrend movement (i.e., it is against the direction of the
trend that set up the pullback) in a trend that usually leads to another price movement in
the direction of the original trend. In other words, after an impulse move up, the pullback
will be a downward movement against that initial impulse; pullbacks in downtrends are
bounces against the preceding downward impulse move. Conceptually, the pullback is
a natural consequence and reaction to the impulse move. Volume is typically lighter in
pullbacks, which is to be expected since impulse moves are driven by active buying, but
many of the traditional volume relationships of technical analysis are not as reliable as
many people believe.
Other terms for pullbacks are consolidations or consolidation patterns. These are
functional labels—they explain what pullbacks do, which is to pause and to consoli-
date the energy of the previous trend leg, usually in preparation for another trend leg in
the same direction. These are not always easy to trade, as it can be difﬁcult to deﬁne
precise entry and risk points in these patterns. However, working to overcome those
challenges is worthwhile, because some of the most reliable statistical tendencies in the
market are for continuation out of these formations. Figure 3.10 shows an example of
standard pullback patterns in the S&P 500 futures.
The character and extent of the pullback can give some insight into the buying pres-
sure behind the market. In fact, judging the commitment behind pullbacks is a key com-
ponent, perhaps the key component, of reading the market tape. If buyers are aggres-
sively accumulating positions, then they will not let the market come in as much on the
retracements; they will step up and buy aggressively at higher prices. This will result in
shallower, smaller pullbacks compared to a situation in which buyers are relatively more
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c03 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:26 Printer: Hamilton Printing
On Trends 61
FIGURE 3.10 Pullbacks in the Uptrend—E-mini S&P 500 Futures, December 2009
complacent. If buyers are more uncertain, they will demand lower prices as protection
and will not be willing to bid the market aggressively higher. The end result will be deeper
pullbacks, perhaps with a more complex structure.
So far, all of the pullbacks examined have been simple pullbacks or consolidations,
meaning that they are composed of one contratrend movement. The trend leg ends, the
pullback begins, and, at the bottom of the pullback, buyers push the market to new highs.
It is not always this simple. Another common pattern is the complex pullback, which is
a standard pullback followed by a failed attempt to resume the original trend. When this
attempt fails and rolls over, the pullback puts in a second leg against the larger trend. A
complex pullback is actually a complete trend leg (impulse, pullback, impulse) structure
on the lower time frame, and we also commonly refer to them as two-legged pullbacks.
Figure 3.11 shows a schematic example of simple and complex pullbacks. Commit these
patterns to memory; they are the fundamental patterns of with-trend trading.
It is important to understand these complex pullbacks for several reasons. First,
they are common. Trend traders will make the bulk of their proﬁts in trends that extend
for several legs, and pullbacks in trends tend to alternate between simple and complex.
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c03 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:26 Printer: Hamilton Printing
62 MARKET STRUCTURE
Simple Consolidation
Complex Consolidation
FIGURE 3.11 Simple and Complex Pullbacks
(This rule of alternation, which describes this alternation between simple and complex
pullbacks, is one of the useful rules from Elliott wave theory.) For instance, it is ex-
tremely unusual to ﬁnd a trend that has ﬁve large trend legs interrupted by four simple
pullbacks; far more common would be ﬁve large trend legs interrupted by two simple
and two complex pullbacks. Traders cannot negotiate the market structure of extended
trends successfully without a good understanding of complex pullbacks. Another reason
to understand these patterns is that many traders will execute a plan that is some vari-
ation of entering into a pullback and exiting if the pullback continues to move against
them. Complex pullbacks will stop these traders out of their positions as the pullback
makes new countertrend extremes on the second leg. Any successful trend trading strat-
egy has to account for the possibility of complex pullbacks. With this in mind, return to
Figure 3.10 and examine the third pullback in the sequence, which is a good example of
a complex pullback in a real market situation.
Measured Move Objective
This combination of impulse/retracement/impulse pattern leads to a three-legged struc-
ture that should be considered the standard trend structure. A rough proﬁt target for the
follow-through leg, the trend leg following the pullback, is the so-called measured move
objective (MMO), which assumes that the CD leg in Figure 3.12 will approximately equal
the length of the AB leg.
Treat this relationship as a rough guideline; all proportions and ratios work in mar-
kets simply because they express the magnitude of ﬂuctuations that are normal for any
particular market. For instance, if a stock has been ﬂuctuating intraday in swings of 0.40
on average, it would not be realistic to expect a 4.00 proﬁt on a single swing. Conversely,
looking for a proﬁt of 0.04 in that same stock would probably be too conservative, and it
might be difﬁcult to justify the necessary risk for such a small target. Certainly, there are
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c03 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:26 Printer: Hamilton Printing
On Trends 63
A
B
C
D
FIGURE 3.12 Measured Move Objective: Add Distance AB to Point C to Predict Approximate
Location of D
examples where markets reach this measured move objective exactly, but it is best to be
prepared to be ﬂexible: If the swing seems to be falling short, perhaps be willing to take
a slightly smaller proﬁt. If the market is driving into the measured move objective with
good momentum, it may often be possible to take proﬁt beyond the level. Do not expect
markets to precisely conform to any set of ratios and relationships.
Another way to use a measured move objective is as a potential entry spot. A com-
mon area where this may occur is in a complex pullback, when it makes sense to look for
the second leg of the pullback to terminate in the area of the measured move objective.
Last, remember that this measured move objective, if used as a price target, provides a
target for only a single swing. It is entirely possible to establish a position in a trend and
hold it through multiple pullbacks and multiple trend leg extensions, in which case the
measured move is valid only for each of the individual swings.
Three Pushes
The parabolic expansion into climax pattern is a dramatic but rare pattern. There are a
number of other more common and subtle patterns that can also indicate climax. One
of the most important of these is three pushes, which appears on a price chart as three
drives to a new high or low after a somewhat extended trend. The pushes are usually
symmetrical in time (meaning that they are more or less evenly spaced horizontally on
the chart) and in price. In the best examples, the third push breaks a trend line drawn
across pushes one and two, indicating a short-term climax on a lower time frame. The
three pushes that make up this pattern are also usually spaced more closely than most of
the other highs in the trend, indicating that the pace of trading activity (not necessarily
volume) has accelerated. For instance, if a market has been making new highs on the
trend every 15 bars, the three pushes pattern might occur with highs spaced ﬁve bars
apart. This is only a guideline, but the more frequent drives to new highs suggest a certain
franticness on the part of buyers. Figure 3.13 shows a classic example of this pattern,
which ended a trend in Wheat futures in early 2011.
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c03 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:26 Printer: Hamilton Printing
64 MARKET STRUCTURE
FIGURE 3.13 Daily Wheat Futures, Showing Three Drives to End a Trend
If you have not seen this pattern before, you are probably thinking that it sounds
very strange. What is magical about three pushes? Why not four or ﬁve? To be sure,
nothing works all the time, but this pattern is reliable enough that it demands attention
when it occurs. As with all other potential trend termination patterns, it may not justify a
countertrend position, but it should at least be a warning to tighten stops and perhaps to
reduce exposure in the direction of the prevailing trend. At the very least, do not greatly
increase risk into the next pullback, because that pullback now has a higher probability
of failure.
As with all patterns, you should be asking, “Why should this pattern exist? What
makes it work?” In this case, it is most likely an outgrowth of the fundamental impulse/
retracement/impulse pattern that drives all trends. Figure 3.14 shows a schematic of the
pattern, which also breaks out the three-legged structure that might not be obvious at
ﬁrst glance. This is an important pattern to commit to memory; it occurs in all markets
and on all time frames, and is subtle enough that many market participants miss it when
it happens.
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c03 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:26 Printer: Hamilton Printing
On Trends 65
Note the small, but complete, 
impulse/retracement/impulse 
creating crests #2 and #3.  
Three symmetrical pushes
FIGURE 3.14 Schematic of the Three Pushes Pattern Showing Underlying Structure
A DEEPER LOOK AT PULLBACKS: THE
QUINTESSENTIAL TREND TRADING PATTERN
Imagine that you wanted to trade a trend in the most efﬁcient manner possible. If you
knew the future—when and where the trend would begin and end—it would be simple:
buy at the beginning of the uptrend and sell at the end; short at the beginning of a down-
trend and cover at the end. Since working time machines are hard to come by, we have
to ﬁnd another plan. The next best solution might be to use the pullbacks to position for
the next trend leg. In other words, buy into the pullbacks in uptrends and short into the
pullbacks (bounces) in downtrends. Even if we are buying in an uptrend, we would still
prefer to buy at relatively low prices; using the pullbacks allows us to do this. Further-
more, it is possible to monitor some of the characteristics of the developing pullbacks to
get some clues as to where the trend might end. Chapter 6 demonstrates several speciﬁc
patterns and plans for trading pullbacks, but let’s begin here by considering some of the
important points that all pullbacks, and trades around them, have in common.
Characteristics of Winning Pullbacks
Pullbacks are contratrend movements, meaning that, in an uptrend, the pullbacks are
actually lower time frame downtrends and, in the case of pullbacks in downtrends, the
lower time frame will be in an uptrend. One important principle of market behavior is
that trends that run counter to the higher time frame trend tend to be weaker and tend to
abort suddenly as the higher time frame trend reasserts itself. This is useful from two per-
spectives: First, trading pullbacks makes sense because they offer excellent trade loca-
tions (i.e., buying relatively cheap in an uptrend or selling relatively high in a downtrend)
with a good probability of success. Second, understanding this principle is important be-
cause it can ﬁlter out low-probability trades—if you enter a pullback on your trading time
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c03 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:26 Printer: Hamilton Printing
66 MARKET STRUCTURE
FIGURE 3.15 Conﬂicting Information from the Daily and Weekly Chart of the U.S. Dollar
Index Futures
frame that is actually contratrend to the higher time frame market structure, this trade
will have a much lower probability of success.
An example will help to clarify this. Figure 3.15 shows what appears to be a pullback
in a good uptrend on the daily U.S. Dollar Index futures chart in the left pane. This is the
second pullback off a potential trend change in early November; the market has rallied to
the upper Keltner channel, and has pulled back approximately to the moving average. All
other things being equal, this would normally be a good potential long trade. However,
a look at the weekly chart (right pane) shows that this time frame is actually in a strong
downtrend, and has only pulled back to its moving average. Seen in this context, the
uptrend on the daily chart is likely to terminate suddenly as the weekly chart reasserts
control and the downtrend on that time frame resumes.
Follows Good Momentum or Impulse When trading pullbacks in a trend, it is
helpful to make sure the market is actually trending. One of the best ways to separate
out the suboptimal trading environments is to trade only pullbacks that are preceded
by signiﬁcant momentum in the direction of the trend. There are many ways to quantify
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c03 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:26 Printer: Hamilton Printing
On Trends 67
this, but simple, visual chart analysis can be very useful. The highest-probability trades
will follow large moves relative to previous swings on the chart. Again, we are into the
territory of subjective analysis, but this is a legitimate skill that can be developed with
experience and exposure to many patterns. The question the trader needs to ask is: “Am
I seeing a move here that should have continuation?” The most important thing to keep
in mind is that we are looking for sharp impulse moves and for signiﬁcant momentum
moves that indicate there is an imbalance in the market that should resolve with another
move in the same direction. It is also possible to quantify this condition with the MACD
or another momentum indicator—look for the indicator to register a signiﬁcant new high
or low (relative to its recent history), and trade only pullbacks following that condition.
Figure 3.16 shows an example of this kind of trading in action. For each of the points
marked on the chart, compare the price action of the market to the action of the fast line
(the solid line) of the modiﬁed MACD. At the point marked A on the chart, the MACD has
registered a signiﬁcant new high relative to its recent history (not visible to the left of
the chart). This would suggest that a trader could look to buy any weakness to position
long for another drive to the upside; the small pullback beginning six bars after A offered
FIGURE 3.16 Trading Momentum in GS, December 2009
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c03 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:26 Printer: Hamilton Printing
68 MARKET STRUCTURE
just such an opportunity. At the point marked B, the market made a new high but the
momentum indicator did not. This is a momentum divergence (more on that in the next
subsection) and suggests that long trades should not be entered on the next pullback. In
this case, the market did go to new highs, but only after chopping sideways for nearly a
month; being tied up in this trade for that length of time would not have been a produc-
tive use of ﬁnancial or mental capital. At C, the market makes a new high, as does the
MACD—buy the next pullback. At D, the new high in the market is accompanied by a
momentum divergence, so a trader would be well advised to avoid buying the following
pullback. In this case, the sell-off marked E spiked the MACD to a new extreme low read-
ing, now suggesting that the next bounce would be a good shorting opportunity. This was
true, and the higher MACD reading relative to the new price low at F would have been a
warning to not short into the next bounce.
Does Not Follow a Momentum Divergence A corollary to the preceding is that
the best pullback trades will not come after a momentum divergence. There are both
objective and subjective elements to this evaluation, but the simple MACD analysis in
the preceding example is a good place to start. If we precisely deﬁne the ways in which
we will measure momentum, it is possible to deﬁne some clear guidelines for trades to be
taken and avoided based on the existing momentum conditions. Length of swing analysis
provides some additional insight into the momentum behind each leg of the trend: Larger
swings (vertical distance on chart) have stronger momentum than smaller swings, but the
rate of the trend (price/time, visible as slope on the chart) is also important.
It is also possible that managing existing positions may require a slightly different
mind-set than initiating new positions. For instance, a strong enough divergence could
warn you not to increase risk or not to initiate new positions into the next pullback, but
you might still be justiﬁed in holding a partial position that was initiated earlier at better
prices. This is the kind of question that must be decided in advance, and your trading
plan should encompass all the possibilities for managing existing positions as well as
initiating new exposures.
Location in Trend It is an axiom in technical analysis that the ﬁrst entry in a trend
is the best entry, but this is an example of the kind of hindsight analysis that must be
avoided. All this really says is that if a market goes up, the best place to get in was at
the beginning of the move—not a particularly helpful piece of knowledge. However, this
concept is useful from a slightly different perspective; with each successive trend leg we
should be slightly more suspicious of the move. It is hard to justify assuming the same
kind of risk on the fourth or ﬁfth legs as on the ﬁrst or second, but it is also important to
remember that markets do have outsized trend moves, and some trends go on far longer
than anyone would have thought possible. It is rare, but a market can have 10 trend
legs in the same direction without a signiﬁcant pullback; most of these later legs will be
generating momentum divergences and then rolling over those divergences. This is also
a good reminder why you do not want to add to losing countertrend trades. Even if an
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c03 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:26 Printer: Hamilton Printing
On Trends 69
extended trend move is a one in a thousand event, if it happens the one time you are
being stubborn and adding to a trade as it grinds against you, that one time can put you
out of business. Competent traders manage risks so that no single trade can ever take
them out of the game.
Retracement Percentage There is valuable information in the character and size of
the pullbacks in a trend; a strong trend will tend to generate smaller pullbacks, relative to
the with-trend legs, than a weaker trend. While we can measure and quantify these pull-
backs in various ways, there is enough noise in the market that exact measurements and
ratios are not particularly useful. This is another tool that that may be best synthesized
into a quasi-discretionary framework.
A good rule of thumb is to expect retracements to terminate at about 50 percent
of the preceding setup leg, plus or minus a very large margin of error. In practice, one
good rule might be to look for terminations somewhere in the 25 to 75 percent range,
but not to be surprised to see terminations either shallower or deeper. You basically
have two broad choices for trading pullbacks: either enter at predetermined retracement
levels with very large stops (which will mandate relatively small position sizes and has
bad implications for reward/risk ratios) or wait for lower time frame and/or price action
conﬁrmation that the pullback has reached a termination. We will explore the second
option in considerable depth in Chapters 6 through 10.
One special case of shallow retracements is more common on intraday charts than
on higher time frames: sometimes an extremely strong trend is unable to pull back at
all; the absence of any clear trend pattern is a pattern in itself. Prices may either move
higher in a series of tight, stair-step trading ranges, or they will press against the upper
channel and slide along that band as the market grinds higher. These can be treacherous
patterns to trade. While these patterns do point to exceptionally strong imbalances and
also to very strong trends, the lack of signiﬁcant pullbacks makes it difﬁcult to position
in the trend at advantageous prices. In addition, these types of trends often feature the
occasional large spike against the trend, most likely driven by anxious traders exiting
trades near the edge of shallow pullbacks. These spikes can make it difﬁcult to precisely
deﬁne risk in with-trend entries. Figure 3.17 shows an example of this trending pattern
in Baidu.com (Nasdaq: BIDU) in February through April 2010. Notice that a trader wait-
ing for a pullback would have been frustrated, as none materialized; the market simply
continued higher.
Symmetry and Lower Time Frame Considerations A pullback is usually a pe-
riod of lower volatility and action in which the market pauses and consolidates the
strength (or weakness, in the case of a downtrend) of the trend legs. This is one of the
characteristics of good pullbacks: they are generally periods of lower activity compared
to trend legs. One of the most reliable tools for deﬁning lower activity is to monitor
price action on lower time frames, where we would expect to see less conviction in
the direction of the trend on that time frame. Remember, the lower time frame trend is
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c03 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:26 Printer: Hamilton Printing
70 MARKET STRUCTURE
FIGURE 3.17 A Strong Trend in BIDU Holds the Stock Tight against the Upper Keltner Channel
countertrend to the prevailing trend on the trading time frame, so we should be on guard
for that lower time frame trend to abort in the direction of the trading time frame’s trend.
Lower time frame ranges should be smaller in most pullbacks, and there should not be
as much conviction in taking liquidity from the book. In addition, the best pullbacks are
often more or less symmetrical on the trading time frame, though it is not unusual to see
the occasional spike outside the conﬁnes of the pattern. These spikes can, in fact, offer
attractive entry points for trades, but the majority of the action should be conﬁned within
clearly deﬁned boundaries.
Compare Figure 3.18, which shows retracements in JPMorgan Chase & Company
(NYSE: JPM) during the latter half of 2009, with Figure 3.19, which highlights retrace-
ments in U.S. Steel Corporation (NYSE: X) during the spring of the same year. Notice
that the retracements in X are much more consistent: they are at approximately the same
angle and the same depth, and they are generally clean, symmetrical geometric patterns.
In contrast, the retracements in JPM are much more erratic. They cover very different
angles, are less predictable in depth, and one, into early October, features a dramatic
drop that would have shaken most longs out of the market. You would be correct in
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c03 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:26 Printer: Hamilton Printing
On Trends 71
FIGURE 3.18 Erratic Pullbacks in JPM, Late 2009
surmising that the patterns in X would have been much more tradable, and that they
probably offered better opportunity for most trend traders.
Common Characteristics of Failed Pullbacks
As important as it is to understand the patterns associated with successful pullbacks, it
is probably equally important to understand the patterns that hint at impending failure.
Understanding how patterns fail lets traders look for warning signs to exit losing trades,
sometimes taking a smaller than expected loss. In addition, some very good trades are
driven by traders trapped in failed patterns. This is especially common with failed break-
outs, which will be covered in the next chapter, but some traders look for trades to set
up around failed pullbacks as well. In general, pullback trades fail in one of three ways:
1. There is no momentum out of the pullback, and the market goes into a more or less
ﬂat trading range somewhere in the level of the pullback.
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c03 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:26 Printer: Hamilton Printing
72 MARKET STRUCTURE
FIGURE 3.19 More Consistent Pullbacks in X, Mid-2009
2. The pullback fails dramatically as sharp, countertrend momentum emerges. The
challenge is to distinguish between this scenario and the more common complex
consolidation.
3. The next trend leg emerges out of the pullback, but it fails in the neighborhood of
the previous swing (i.e., the high of the setup leg in an uptrend or the low of the
setup leg in a downtrend).
Flat Pullback One of the most common pullback failure patterns occurs when the
market begins what looks like a good pullback but then there is simply no move out
of that pullback. Instead, the market goes into a ﬂat range, indicating that buyers and
sellers are in relative balance. Trading in this new range is usually a bad idea since price
action will be random and not driven by any real order ﬂow. Also, breakouts from this
new range are treacherous, with the potential for fake-outs in either direction. In most
cases, the best course of action is to recognize the pattern once it has developed, book a
small loss or gain on the trade, and move on to other opportunities. Figure 3.20 shows an
example of a pullback in AAPL that failed to continue the trend and instead transitioned
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c03 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:26 Printer: Hamilton Printing
On Trends 73
FIGURE 3.20 A Pullback in APPL That Failed by Transitioning to a Flat Trading Range
into a sideways range. Though it is difﬁcult to set a precise point at which a trader should
have recognized that the pullback was not working as expected, it should have been
obvious no later than four or ﬁve bars after the point marked A on the chart. In this
case, the pullback eventually failed dramatically as sharp downside momentum came
into the market, but it could just as easily have resolved to the upside. The point is that
this pattern indicates that whatever edge existed in the pullback is now gone.
Sharp Countertrend Momentum as Pullback Is Violated The previous exam-
ple showed a case where a pullback failed via sharp contratrend momentum after ﬁrst
going into a sideways range. However, the market is not always so polite. Some of the
most dangerous pullback failures, at least in terms of the possibility of creating large
losses, occur when the pullback simply fails sharply by breaking to the “wrong side.”
Pullbacks that were anticipated to have been continuation patterns in uptrends may fail
through sharp breakdowns, and vice versa. These are the patterns that make risk man-
agement based solely on pattern geometry difﬁcult—how far away do you put the stop?
No matter where you might think it should go, there will, in some subset of these pat-
terns, be spikes to that level and beyond. Figure 3.21 shows an example of a continuation
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c03 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:26 Printer: Hamilton Printing
74 MARKET STRUCTURE
FIGURE 3.21 A Pullback in 30-Year Treasury Bond Futures That Failed via Sharp Momentum
pattern in the 30-year Treasury bond futures that seemed to have everything going for it:
the market had consolidated on support for two months, the breakdown of that support
was fairly clean and had good momentum, and the market started to consolidate under
that previous support. This is an excellent pattern on which to base a short trade, but in
this case it was not to be. At the point marked A, buyers swept the market up through
the top of the pullback, back above support, and it did not look back.
It absolutely is necessary to limit your risk on these patterns, because many of them
will not return to your entry price after they fail. In fact, if the pattern was a truly excel-
lent setup, there may be many traders trapped on the wrong side of the market, and this
pressure can sometimes create a long-term inﬂection point in a trend. Imagine shorting
at the very bottom of a turn into an uptrend, and shorting more as the market rallies, only
to see a full-ﬂedged uptrend emerge. Traders will inevitably be caught in situations like
this; it is the task of risk management to make sure that they become normal, planned-for
losses and not outright disasters.
However, there is another important pattern to be aware of. It is sometimes pos-
sible to turn trapped traders to our advantage, as many excellent trades are driven by
traders trapped either into or out of the market. In the aforementioned example, if you
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c03 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:26 Printer: Hamilton Printing
On Trends 75
FIGURE 3.22 A Failure to Break Down Out of a Pullback in the S&P Futures Sets Up a Good
With-Trend Entry
have continued shorting into the new uptrend, eventually you would have been trapped
on the wrong side of the market with an outsized loss and forced to throw in the towel.
This, obviously, is not good. However, take a look at Figure 3.22, which shows a complex
consolidation in an uptrend in the E-mini S&P 500 Futures. At the point marked A, the
consolidation had failed: the pattern was broken by two large candles under the bottom
of the pattern, with a close far underneath at A. If you were an aggressive short, it might
even have been reasonable to initiate a short on this bar, but look carefully at what hap-
pened next. There was no momentum and no selling conviction below the level. Within
two days, the market was solidly back above the consolidation, went on to take out the
highs, and put in another trend leg over the next several weeks. This is an extremely im-
portant pattern for pullback traders, who are always trying to ﬁnd the ideal combination
of trade location and probability. Usually, buying as low as possible means buying when
prices are declining, but this type of failure at the bottom of the consolidation allows an
entry at low prices that is also aligned with short-term momentum. This is an outstanding
entry pattern for pullback traders.
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c03 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:26 Printer: Hamilton Printing
76 MARKET STRUCTURE
FIGURE 3.23 Proﬁt Targets for Pullbacks In Uptrends and Downtrends
Failure around Previous Pivot When trading pullbacks, it is unrealistic to assume
that every pullback will result in a new trend leg equal to the setup leg or that they will
give rise to trends that continue for many more legs. This, of course, is the best-case
outcome, but it is far more common to ﬁnd pullback trades that give opportunities for
smaller proﬁts. More consistent results will come from taking at least partial proﬁts at
a more conservative proﬁt target; the pivot high or low (in an uptrend or a downtrend,
respectively) of the setup leg is an ideal target and should be considered the ﬁrst, most
conservative proﬁt target for any pullback trade. Figure 3.23 shows this pullback target
schematically for both uptrends and downtrends.
The third pullback failure occurs around this proﬁt target—either before, at, or just
beyond it. It is not necessary to examine each possibility in detail, because they are all
conceptually the same. The market reaches the neighborhood of the ﬁrst proﬁt target
and simply is not able to trade very far beyond that target. For traders taking partial
proﬁts here, these patterns are not even actually failures; the ﬁrst target was reached.
The important point is that traders should always be on guard for potential failure at
this area, particularly in the area of previous pivots (e.g., the high of the setup trend leg
preceding the pullback).
There are many possibilities for trade management, depending on the trader’s per-
sonality and the details of the exact trading plan. Many traders prefer to exit some portion
of their pullback trades at these targets, with the idea that they will be able to endure a
failure at the target without a substantial loss. In fact, by booking partial proﬁts and re-
ducing the position size, many times it is possible to walk away from this kind of failure
with a proﬁt on the overall trade. Figure 3.24 shows an example of a failure at the ﬁrst
proﬁt target in the GBPUSD. A sustained downtrend made a complex pullback (note also
the failure entry at the top of the pullback, similar to Figure 3.22 inverted), which broke
down and failed to extend beyond the previous swing low. A trader on guard for this fail-
ure could certainly have booked a proﬁt on the trade, even though the actual downswing
was much smaller than previous downswings.
There are several issues to consider here. First, of the three possibilities (failure in-
side, precisely at, or beyond the setup leg’s extreme), the one that actually trades beyond
the previous pivot to make a marginal new high or low before failing is the most treacher-
ous. The reason is that there are likely to be more trapped trend traders, and more traders
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c03 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:26 Printer: Hamilton Printing
On Trends 77
FIGURE 3.24 A Pullback in the GBPUSD Fails Near the Trend Extreme
who will be aggressive about adjusting their positions as the market retreats from that
extreme; this can lead to very sharp countertrend momentum on these failures. The sec-
ond issue is a mechanical one. If you intend to take proﬁts around these previous swings,
spend some time considering how you will do this. What percentage of the position will
you exit? Will you do it by bidding or offering at the previous extreme, or will you wait
to see the market fail? (Note that waiting for the failure can result in substantial slippage
at times.) If you do exit part of the position, will you ever add it back? As you consider
the theory and structure of markets, also begin to consider them within the framework
of an applied trading plan.
TREND ANALYSIS
There are many tools in technical analysis for identifying and analyzing trends. The
choice of which to use will depend on many factors: your personality, your trading style,
what kind of trend you want to identify, where (in terms of the age of the trend) you want
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c03 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:26 Printer: Hamilton Printing
78 MARKET STRUCTURE
FIGURE 3.25 Higher Highs and Higher Lows in an Idealized Dow Theory Uptrend
to identify it, and how you want to trade it. A trader looking for mature trends in mar-
kets that trend well might simply look for charts that “begin at one corner of the chart
and travel to the other.” This might seem to be an overly simplistic approach to ﬁnding
trending markets, but it works for certain kinds of traders. Other traders might look for
subtle patterns and momentum shifts that suggest a trend might be turning, with the idea
that they will aggressively pursue entries at those spots so that they have bought the low
or sold the high if a new trend develops. All of these approaches are valid, but let’s begin
with a broad, structural approach to trend identiﬁcation. This is pure market structure
approach based largely on the work of the early authors who laid out the principles of
what became known as the Dow Theory.
Dow Theory Trend Patterns
An uptrend is a pattern of successively higher pivot highs (HHs) and higher pivot lows
(HLs) (see Figure 3.25). Both are important. Most people readily accept a deﬁnition of
an uptrend that requires higher highs; this is intuitive, but it is easy to overlook the im-
portance of accompanying higher lows; if a market is only making higher highs, but is
not also clearly holding higher lows, the buyers are not solidly in control of that market.
Conversely, a downtrend is a series of both lower lows (LLs) and lower highs (LHs) (see
Figure 3.26). This is perhaps the most elementary deﬁnition of trend possible on any time
frame.
FIGURE 3.26 Dow Theory Downtrend with Lower Lows and Lower Highs
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c03 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:26 Printer: Hamilton Printing
On Trends 79
A
FIGURE 3.27 Dow Theory Trend Change #1
Under this system, there are three possible trend states: up, down, or uncertain;
many people incorrectly assume that a market is either in an uptrend or in a downtrend,
but the third possibility is important. There are several reasons that a trend could be
identiﬁed as uncertain. For example, perhaps the pattern in the market actually is un-
clear and more or less random; we can usually force any structure into some pattern,
but such a Procrustean approach is rarely constructive. It is far better to have tools that
respect the realities of the market, and at times the market is simply uncertain. The best
trend identiﬁcation tools will respect the potential for ambiguity.
One of the most important aspects of the study of trends is the study of how they end.
Under this idealized Dow Theory structure, there are two categories of trend changes. In
the ﬁrst, the market fails to make a new extreme on a with-trend leg. In an uptrend, if the
market falls short of the previous pivot high, the trend status becomes uncertain. Note
that it is not yet in a downtrend, because the downtrend requires both lower highs and
lower lows. Conceptually, buyers failed to push the market to new highs; this is a warning
shot across the bow, but not a conﬁrmation of a trend change. It is not uncommon to
see a market fail to make a new high, consolidate a bit, and then continue the uptrend
unabated. The trend change is actually conﬁrmed only when price trades through the last
pivot low, marking a lower low (see Figure 3.27). Once that previous pivot low has been
violated, any upswing will now begin from a lower low. Since the market has put in both
a lower high and a lower low, the technical requirement for a trend change to downtrend
is satisﬁed.
The second trend change occurs when prices retreat so aggressively from the highs
that they take out the previous pivot low; at this point, the trend pattern is broken be-
cause the market shows a higher high and a lower low. (See point A in Figure 3.28.) This
pattern is less common, because it requires signiﬁcant volatility off the high to take out
the pivot low in one swing. It is, however, an important pattern because it often sug-
gests trapped trend traders and can set up very attractive countertrend trades, or a sharp
trend change with potential for continuation in the new trend. The actual trend change
is more complicated in this case, requiring two more steps. The next rally must fall short
of the previous high (point B in Figure 3.28), but the trend change is not conﬁrmed until
the market again takes out the previous low. Why? Because it would be possible for the
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c03 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:26 Printer: Hamilton Printing
80 MARKET STRUCTURE
A
B
C
FIGURE 3.28 Dow Theory Trend Change #2
market to put in a lower high at B, hold a higher low than C, and then continue in an
uptrend by trading through B. The only way to be certain that the market will show the
lower high and lower low is for the previous low to fail to hold as support.
It goes without saying that these patterns are simply inverted for a downtrend chang-
ing to an uptrend. In the ﬁrst case, a downtrend fails to make a lower low, and then the
trend change is conﬁrmed when the previous pivot high is violated. In the second case,
a sharp rally takes out the previous pivot high, the subsequent decline falls short of new
lows, and then the next rally makes a new high.
An Important Complication: The Complex Consolidation Figure 3.29 shows
an uptrending market with a complex consolidation, which is a powerful continuation
pattern. Note that a naive application of the previous change-of-trend rules would have
ﬂagged a downtrend at precisely the point you should have been buying this market.
This complex consolidation pattern is very common, and it often leads to exceptional
trade opportunities in the direction of the existing trend. If you were to use this structure
in a vacuum, you would frequently ﬁnd yourself positioning short at precisely the point
you should be buying in these complex consolidations.
This does not compromise the validity of this simple labeling system, which does
what it is designed to do very well: it identiﬁes breaks in the pattern of trends, and marks
Trend change?
FIGURE 3.29 A Complex Consolidation Will Flag a Trend Change According to a Strict Interpre-
tation of Dow Theory Rules
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c03 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:26 Printer: Hamilton Printing
On Trends 81
those areas for further attention. Also, in any trading tool there is always a trade-off
between being early with many false alerts and being late while waiting for conﬁrmation.
Next, we examine a few other methods of identifying trends, all of which lag this swing
analysis and all of which also have their own false signals.
Indicators
It is possible to use information from indicators to quantify the direction, strength, and
potential of trends. These tools may be applied in a strict, quantitative manner, either
singly or in combination with other indicators, or they may be used as discretionary
inputs into a more extensive process. In the case of trends, indicators and other tools
can be useful because they are sometimes able to ﬁlter out noise and to reveal the deeper
market structure. An experienced trader can do this based on the raw patterns of price,
but newer traders will often ﬁnd that an indicator simpliﬁes their task considerably. In
addition, experienced traders may still want to use some combination of these tools to
aid in scanning many markets quickly for speciﬁc trade conditions.
Slope of a Single Moving Average Moving average models are used in economet-
rics to analyze and forecast trends. One of the simplest trend indicators used by traders
is the slope of a single moving average. The length of the moving average will determine
the sensitivity of the average, or, more accurately, the time frame on which it will evalu-
ate trends. For instance, a 10-period moving average will have a lot to say about the trend
over the past 10 bars, but is not likely to be relevant to the trend over the past 100 bars.
Figure 3.30 shows trend changes marked by the slope of a 50-period simple moving
average. Notice that the average lags the actual trend change in the market, but that
many false signals come when the average is ﬂat. Those trades could be eliminated by
the creation of an “undeﬁned” zone around the average, but this would also come at the
expense of later signals for many valid trend changes.
Other Indicators There are many trend indicators derived from crossovers of one
or more moving averages, and a number of more complex tools are also in common use.
The Directional Movement Index (DMI) and the Average Directional Index (ADX) were
created by Welles Wilder (1978) to quantify trend direction and strength. Linda Raschke
and Laurence Conners (1996) advocate usage of the ADX without the DMI to deﬁne the
strength of the trend while gauging trend direction from other indicators, and they intro-
duce a number of other reﬁnements to the use of this tool. Other traders will use tools
such as the MACD histogram or other momentum indicators to provide indications and
warnings of trend change. Last, a number of indicators exist that use more sophisticated
math, such as linear regression lines, or that apply digital signal processing tools to price
data in order to expose the underlying cycles.
Each of these approaches has its merits, but they also bring dangers. Traders can be
seduced by the siren song of ﬁnding the perfect indicator, and can spend years search-
ing for the best settings or the best combinations of tools. Many traders will ﬁnd better
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c03 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:26 Printer: Hamilton Printing
82 MARKET STRUCTURE
FIGURE 3.30 Trend Changes Flagged by the Slope of a 50-Period Moving Average
results by learning to read price action and market structure, using simple tools to con-
strain their actions to the realities of the marketplace, and always remembering that
our tools are only tools. Go back through the last several charts, and notice how the
trend changes given by each of the following tools usually lags the trend changes that
you would have identiﬁed by simply reading the emerging price structure in each chart.
There is no right or wrong here, but there is also no holy grail.
Understanding Trend Integrity
For most traders, the question of trend integrity is paramount. How strong is the trend?
Are there any warning signs that suggest it could turn? How far might it go? What should
our expectations be when it does turn? How can we monitor the strength of the trend as
it waxes and wanes, and gain some more insight into the relative buying and selling pres-
sure behind the trend? These are all important questions, and they all can be addressed by
some very simple analyses. There are three primary points to consider: length of swings,
rate of trend, and the character of each trend leg.
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c03 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:26 Printer: Hamilton Printing
On Trends 83
A B
FIGURE 3.31 In an Uptrend, Upswings Are Larger than Downswings
Length of Swing Analysis
Simple math tells us that in an uptrend the upswings must be longer than the down-
swings, and the reverse is true in downtrends. If a market is gaining more on the up-
swings than it is losing on the pullbacks, the net effect will be to move to a higher price
level—this is a very elementary deﬁnition of a trend and is also consistent with the Dow
Theory trend construct. One very simple way we can look at trends is to draw lines con-
necting the pivot lows to the pivot highs in each of the major swings, and then simply
compare the lengths of those lines to previous swings in terms of both vertical distance
(price) and horizontal distance (time). Some examples will help to clarify. In a strong
uptrend, the upswings are larger than the downswings, usually both in price and in time
(see Figure 3.31).
Any break or change in this pattern should be a warning that something is changing
and that the trend integrity could be weakening. For instance, a common pattern that
suggests the trend is running out of steam occurs when successive upswings are shorter
relative to previous upswings, as in Figure 3.32. It is also interesting to consider the
overlap between this length of swing analysis and traditional chart patterns. For instance,
Figure 3.32 might also be read as a “gently rounding top” by chart pattern–oriented
traders. With some slight adjustments, the same pattern of smaller upswings might
FIGURE 3.32 Shorter Upswings Can Be a Warning of Impending Trend Failure
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c03 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:26 Printer: Hamilton Printing
84 MARKET STRUCTURE
FIGURE 3.33 The First Downswing That Is Larger than the Preceding Upswing, in Time or Price,
Is a Warning to Pay Attention
generate a double top, a triple top, or a head and shoulders pattern. This is a good
lesson—all of these patterns are essentially the same pattern.
A very important structural element in swing analysis is the ﬁrst downswing in an
uptrend that is longer than the preceding upswing (see Figure 3.33). Vertically, this swing
will make a lower low, setting up a potential trend change condition, but it is even more
important to realize that this swing can indicate a distinct change of character in the
market. It usually shows a failure on the part of the buyers to support the market, and,
depending on the strength of the selling pressure in the swing (which must be judged
from price action or lower time frame market structure), it may even set up a potential
countertrend short on the next bounce. This is perhaps the single most important pattern
in length of swing analysis.
Of course, it is not always so simple. Though we might expect a shortable bounce
following the pattern in Figure 3.33, it is also possible that this type of downswing may
simply set up a complex consolidation. Furthermore, though a complex consolidation is
usually a trend continuation pattern, there are other possible resolutions that may follow
that pattern. Any of the possible pullback failure patterns apply equally well to complex
consolidations because they are simple pullbacks on the higher time frame.
These examples have dealt exclusively with uptrends, but they are simply reﬂected
and reversed for downtrends. These patterns can form a foundation for a robust under-
standing of trend analysis. Do not be put off by the simplicity of this analysis. In the right
context, simple tools work very well.
Using Trend Lines to Deﬁne Rate of Trend
Trend lines are one of the most used and abused tools in modern technical analysis. One
good working deﬁnition of a trend line is a line drawn between two points on a chart,
but then there are the internal trend lines, which can be drawn anywhere through the
middle of price bars. There are many possible variations of these lines, but the one rule
is that however the trader chooses to deﬁne trend lines, they should be used and applied
consistently.
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c03 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:26 Printer: Hamilton Printing
On Trends 85
The Standard Trend Line Standard uptrend lines are drawn between higher lows
in an uptrend; the standard downtrend line is a line drawn between lower highs in a
downtrend. The uptrend line shows where buyers have stepped in on the declines with
additional demand and have bid the market higher, which is why Wyckoff called this line
the demand line. In a downtrend, the downtrend line, or the supply line, shows where
additional sellers have come into the market to arrest the bounces. If you are drawing
standard trend lines, be certain of these points:
r They slope with the trend. Uptrend lines are upward sloping, and downtrend lines
slope downward.
r Uptrend lines are underneath prices, marking areas of potential support. Downtrend
lines are possible resistance areas, and must be drawn above prices.
Figure 3.34 shows examples of correctly drawn standard trend lines in the XLF.
FIGURE 3.34 Standard Trend Lines in the SPDR Select Sector Fund for the Financial Sector
(NYSE: XLF)
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c03 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:26 Printer: Hamilton Printing
86 MARKET STRUCTURE
FIGURE 3.35 Nonstandard Trend Lines in XLF
Figure 3.35 shows examples of nonstandard trend lines:
r A is drawn between lows in a downtrend instead of between highs in a downtrend.
r B is also drawn between lows in a downtrend. Furthermore, it ignores a large price
spike in an effort to ﬁt the line to later data.
r C is more of a best-ﬁt line drawn through the center of a price area. These may be
drawn freehand or via a procedure like linear regression.
r D is drawn between highs in an uptrend.
r E raises a critical point about trend lines: They are lines drawn between successive
swings in the market. If there are no swings, there should be no trend line. It would
be hard to argue that the market was showing any swings at E, at least on this time
frame. This trend line may be valid on a lower time frame, but it is nonstandard on
this time frame.
In general, trend lines are tools to deﬁne the relationship between swings, and are a
complement to the simple length of swing analysis. As such, one of the requirements for
drawing trend lines is that there must actually be swings in the market. We see many
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c03 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:26 Printer: Hamilton Printing
On Trends 87
cases where markets are ﬂat, and it is possible to draw trend lines that touch the tops
or bottoms of many consecutive price bars. With one important exception later in this
chapter, these types of trend lines do not tend to be very signiﬁcant. They are penetrated
easily by the smallest motions in the market, and there is no reliable price action after
the penetration. Avoid drawing these trend lines in ﬂat markets with no deﬁnable swings.
The Parallel Trend Line This useful tool is built in three steps:
1. Draw a correct, standard trend line.
2. Create a parallel line. (Most charting packages will allow you to clone the line, but
you can accomplish the same thing by drawing the trend line, dragging it away while
preserving the angle, and then redrawing the original line.)
3. Anchor the parallel line to the opposite side of the trend. (In an uptrend, it should be
attached to pivot highs, and to pivot lows in a downtrend.) It is very important that it
is anchored to the most extreme pointbetween the two initial anchor points for the
standard trend line. The parallel line must not cut prices between those two initial
points.
The purpose of the parallel trend line is to create a trend channel that shows the
range of ﬂuctuations that the market has accepted as normal. In general, if you are long
in an uptrend and prices rise to the upper parallel trend line, it probably makes sense to
be slightly defensive and to take some proﬁts. The same idea applies, inverted, to down-
trending markets. Of course, the market can take out the parallel channel and continue,
but this is frequently an area where there is additional volatility and heightened potential
for reversal.
Figure 3.36 shows an example of a parallel trend line on weekly bars of the S&P 500
Cash index. A few points to consider: The long dotted line is the parallel trend channel,
which was drawn at point A on the chart. This is important; the line was in place in mid-
2010, so it provided an already-established reference going into 2011. Note that the partial
line marked B is not correct because it cuts through prices between the two attachment
points for the standard trend line. Most importantly, notice the price action at the points
marked C, which provided clear reference points to reduce long positions or even to
initiate aggressive shorts.
There are, broadly speaking, two expectations for price action near this line. In the
ﬁrst case, prices reach the top of the channel and pause or back off, as in Figure 3.36.
Depending on your style, you may or may not want to attempt to fade the trend at the line,
but this is difﬁcult because there are usually no logical and clearly deﬁned risk points.
Trades like this may be overly aggressive, but it should at least be a reasonable spot
to reduce exposure and to book partial proﬁts. It is important to monitor price action
around these levels carefully, because there is the chance that the market will pause,
consolidate, and then press through the channel. When this happens, it is a strong vote
of conﬁdence from the dominant group in the market (buyers in uptrends, sellers in
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c03 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:26 Printer: Hamilton Printing
88 MARKET STRUCTURE
FIGURE 3.36 A Parallel Trend Line on the Weekly S&P 500 Cash Index
downtrends) and often leads to a new trend that proceeds at a faster rate. Figure 3.37
shows an example of this phenomenon in silver futures.
This is a good example of what people mean when they say “reading the market
tape,” which is, in part, judging how the market acts around critical levels. A key com-
ponent of this is price action on lower time frames, which can only partially be inferred
from the trading time frame. A complete understanding requires inspection of several
lower time frame charts, and, ideally, monitoring in real time as the action develops. If
you found yourself short after point A in Figure 3.37, it would have been relatively easy
to see that you were on the wrong side of the market. What should have happened, if
your short was correct, was a fairly immediate meltdown. Being responsive to informa-
tion often allows a trader to reduce losses on losing trades, and, ideally, to position on
the correct side of the trade.
One- to Three-Bar Trend Lines In general, the signiﬁcance of a trend line depends
on the signiﬁcance of the points used to deﬁne the line. However, there are some special
cases where very short-term trend lines may give good trading signals. Charles Drum-
mond (1980) has used these short-term trend lines as the foundation for his Drummond
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c03 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:26 Printer: Hamilton Printing
On Trends 89
FIGURE 3.37 A Break of the Parallel Trend Line Can Often Lead to an Accelerated Trend (Daily
Silver Futures)
Geometry, a unique and interesting perspective on the traditional concepts of support
and resistance. In addition, Al Brooks (2009) writes about similar usage of short-term
trend lines primarily applied to intraday trading, which he callsMicro Trendlines. Newer
traders might be best off avoiding these lines, as there is the temptation to simply con-
nect any two points on a chart to see what happens. It is easy to become sidetracked
and spend much time drawing, erasing, and redrawing trend lines, when they should be
focusing on the bigger-picture trend structure as it develops. At some point in their de-
velopment as traders, they may ﬁnd that these small trend lines offer some interesting
opportunities for precisely timing entries.
The two-day line drawn from the day before yesterday’s low to yesterday’s high,
and extended into today’s space on the chart will often deﬁne areas where the market is
likely to exhaust itself in an overextended condition. (The corresponding downtrend line
can be drawn from the day before yesterday’s high to yesterday’s low, and into today’s
price range.) This line is not even a trend line proper, in that we do not look for the
slope of the line to contain prices or to deﬁne the trend. Rather, the point where the
line intersects today’s prices is a potential reversal or inﬂection point. As with all trend
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c03 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:26 Printer: Hamilton Printing
90 MARKET STRUCTURE
FIGURE 3.38 Trend Lines Drawn between Two Bars Can Provide Good Inﬂections on the Next Bar
lines, there is no magic here; it works because markets tend to oscillate within certain
volatility levels that can be geometrically deﬁned by the previous movements of that
market. Figure 3.38 shows examples of these very short trend lines, but these are only a
few isolated examples.
One good application for these short-term trend lines occurs frequently in pullbacks.
These pullback patterns often have fairly clean boundaries of support and resistance,
and small trend lines can be drawn over, under, or touching multiple bars in a row. (This
is an exception to the rule earlier that trend lines should deﬁne relationships between
real swings in the market.) A very common pattern is to see these short-term trend lines
violated for short periods of time, and for the recovery from that break to actually be the
catalyst for a move in the opposite direction of the break. For instance, Figure 3.39 shows
a clean buy off a (nonstandard) trend line at the bottom of a pullback in an uptrend. Nor-
mally, this would probably not be an attractive spot to initiate a long, as we try to avoid
buying after a buying climax, but the duration of the consolidation was sufﬁcient to work
off the climax condition. The market consolidated long enough that it was reasonable to
attempt a long trade. If you had been looking for a spot to buy this market, note how
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c03 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:26 Printer: Hamilton Printing
On Trends 91
FIGURE 3.39 The Break of the Trend Line under the Pullback Was the Catalyst for the Move
the break of the very small trend line actually provides the entry point. You will have to
decide how you want to manage the risk in these trades, but one simple way might be to
wait for the market to recover back above the trend line, and then to buy with a stop just
under the low of the bar that broke the trend line.
It is always important to ask why a pattern should work. In this case, there is a good
explanation. The little spike beyond the short-term trend line is a buying or selling climax
on lower time frames, so it is a natural exhaustion point for the countertrend move. Fur-
thermore, there will be traders who exit their positions when those trend lines are bro-
ken, and they will be forced to chase the market to get back in. Remember that trapped
traders drive some of the best trades, and that traders can be as effectively trapped out of
positions as in. The key to the success of this pattern is that the market should not spend
much time outside the trend line. (The deﬁnition of “much time” depends on the time
frame—if weekly bars, probably not more than two days. If daily bars, then probably not
more than a few hours. But on a 1-minute chart, we would want to see prices back above
the trend line in less than 30 seconds.)
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c03 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:26 Printer: Hamilton Printing
92 MARKET STRUCTURE
Rate of Trend
Markets rarely trend at one simple, consistent rate. It is very common to see a trend
line broken and for the original trend to hold, albeit at a more shallow slope. This is one
reason why naively trading on breaks of trend lines can be frustrating; these breaks are
often simply moves into another degree, level, or rate of trend. Figure 3.40 shows trend
lines redrawn to deﬁne the new rate of trend. This often has to be done many times in
extended trends, leaving a characteristic fan of trend lines.
It is also possible for a market to deﬁne a new, steeper trend. A common spot where
this can occur is on a break beyond a parallel trend line, but this can also happen at any
point in a trend if a catalyst further tips the supply/demand imbalance. In Figure 3.41,
Cotton futures slowly ramp into a trend that eventually ends in a parabolic climax,
and ever-steeper trend lines must be drawn to contain the new trend. These greatly
accelerated trends will eventually reach rates that are unsustainable, as they often end
in minor climax moves. At some point, trend lines will be more or less vertical, and it is
important to avoid attaching too much signiﬁcance to a break of a nearly vertical trend
FIGURE 3.40 A Fan of Trend Lines as the Intraday Russell 2000 Exchange-Traded Fund (ETF)
(IWM) Finds New Rates of Trend on Small Breaks of the Trend Line
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c03 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:26 Printer: Hamilton Printing
On Trends 93
FIGURE 3.41 Steepening Trend Lines Are Needed to Deﬁne the Accelerating Trend in
Cotton Futures
line. They are still useful from the standpoint that they do deﬁne the rate of the trend, but
they are also broken easily and with impunity. However, if these trend lines are marking
parabolic markets, it is important to be responsive to the possibility of a dramatic col-
lapse. Trend lines may not be the ideal tools to trade in these areas, but they can point
out important structures and areas to watch.
Character of Trend Legs
One important question for discretionary traders to consider is how to weigh objective
and subjective elements in technical analysis. Some things are simple and clear, which is
one reason that many traders focus on indicators: Price is above the moving average, or
it is not. The MACD histogram is higher than it was yesterday, or it is not. In each of these
cases, there could not be much room for debate. However, when we start talking about
things like character of moves or judging the conviction behind such moves, we are on
shakier ground. Two analysts could look at the same chart and the same set of data,
and come to different conclusions, and the same analyst might even make a different
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c03 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:26 Printer: Hamilton Printing
94 MARKET STRUCTURE
call looking at the same data on a different day. To some critics, this invalidates the
discipline of technical analysis, or forces them to focus on only the objective elements.
This is a mistake, because some of the most powerful tools of technical analysis are at
least partially subjective. The question should be: How can we build, reﬁne, and verify
the validity of our subjective analyses?
This is a good question. Part of the answer is to remember that the beginner has
not seen enough market data to start to develop this subjective sense. For this reason,
beginners are probably better advised to stick with more concrete elements, and to take
careful notes of their impressions and subjective judgments as intuition starts to develop.
Intuition, the classic “market feel,” is based on a combination of a number of elements,
most of which in themselves are fairly objective. Where the subjective element comes
into play is in the synthesis of many individual factors, and it can be difﬁcult to articulate
precise rules for this part of the process. This is what good traders do: they are synthe-
sizers, taking many disparate elements and combining them into a whole that is much
greater than the sum of the parts. As an example, in considering the character of trend
legs, the following elements might be important:
r Length of swing on the trading time frame. Longer swings usually mean more con-
viction, with the exception of potential exhaustion if a market is overextended. As a
rule of thumb, if, after several swings in the same direction, a swing emerges that is
two to three times the length of the average swing, this may indicate an overextended
market and a possible climax.
r Number of bars in each leg. This is a measure of time, and is usually redundant be-
cause we can perceive the same information via the slope of the trend on the chart.
There is almost never any need to count bars.
r Height of bars near the beginning and end of the legs. Larger bars (relative to the
average bar size) usually indicate increased conviction, but very large bars near the
end of a swing can indicate exhaustion or climax, which will usually be obvious on
the lower time frame.
r The position of the closes in the trading time frame bars. In general, closes below the
midpoint of the bar in an uptrend probably indicate some disagreement on a lower
time frame. Conversely, closes right at the extreme high of the bar, especially for
multiple bars in a row, can indicate exhaustion. This is counterintuitive, but it is a
statistically veriﬁable principle of price behavior.
r Presence or lack of signiﬁcant price action around previous resistance levels.
r Presence or absence of lower time frame pullbacks within each trend leg. Trend legs
can be clean one-directional moves on the lower time frame, or they can hide ABC
structures on the lower time frame. Complex consolidations can work off overex-
tended conditions, setting the market up for another trend thrust.
r Higher time frame considerations. For instance, if a trend on the trading time frame
is exhausting into a higher time frame resistance, this might be something to pay
attention to. In contrast, if a strong uptrend develops on the trading time frame at
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c03 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:26 Printer: Hamilton Printing
On Trends 95
the same point where a higher time frame bull ﬂag breaks out, this is a pattern that
is likely to see some continuation.
r Volume and trading activity matter. How easily does the market go up? Are there
gaps up that do not ﬁll on a daily chart? Intraday, are price levels skipped because
large orders clear many levels in the book?
SUMMARY
Many traders focus their trading activity exclusively on trending environments; there is
certainly some justiﬁcation for this because many outstanding trades come in trending
environments. Market structure in trends is often driven by a strong imbalance of buying
and selling pressure, it is relatively easy to deﬁne risk points for trades, and some of the
cleanest, easiest trades come from trends. However, markets do not always trend. We
do not always know when markets are trending, how long the trend will last, or what
potential our trend trades may have. A complete understanding of market structure also
includes a good grasp of the trading ranges, and the common patterns by which markets
transition between the two.
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c03 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:26 Printer: Hamilton Printing
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c04 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:30 Printer: Hamilton Printing
CHAPTER 4
On Trading Ranges
The heavy is the root of the light.
The unmoved is the source of all movement.
—Daodejing (ca. 6 BCE)
P
rice action in trends is often not that difﬁcult to read, as there are a number of
patterns that give insight into the integrity of the trend at any moment; trading
ranges are more complicated because price action in those ranges is much more
random. The deﬁning patterns of trading ranges are the tests of support and resistance
near the conﬁnes of the range, but price action around support and resistance is complex.
Much of the conventional wisdom about support and resistance is not correct, and many
support or resistance levels used by traders are probably no better than any random level
in the market. The study of trading ranges must begin with a careful look at support and
resistance, with a willingness to question some long-held beliefs about these levels.
SUPPORT AND RESISTANCE
In their venerable bible of technical analysis, Edwards and Magee (1948; 4th ed., 1964)
deﬁne support as “the price level at which a sufﬁcient amount of demand is forthcoming
to stop, and possibly turn higher for a time, a downtrend”; they give the inverse deﬁnition
for resistance. The idea is that, as price declines, lower prices will naturally ﬁnd more
willing buyers. At some point, price declines far enough that buyers are willing to soak
up all the sell orders in the market, and the market will stop going down. This theoretical
concept is sound, but there is another important point to consider: real markets have
so many competing inﬂuences and so much noise that prices frequently stop at random
levels. That, coupled with our innate tendency to ﬁnd patterns in random data, can cause
support and resistance areas to appear on charts for no signiﬁcant reason.
97
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c04 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:30 Printer: Hamilton Printing
98 MARKET STRUCTURE
Potential Support/Resistance
To start, consider an important reﬁnement to the concept of support and resistance. This
may seem like a subtle and insigniﬁcant point, but it is important. Anytime you think,
speak, or write about a support area, attach the word potential to that deﬁnition. Prices
are not coming down to a support area; they are coming down to a potential support
area. Too many times, traders think that these areas are magic lines on the chart, and
that price will bounce there. This may be as much a function of language as anything
else, but this change in thinking will remind you that the best we can say about a support
area is that it is an area where price may have a higher probability of pausing. It is easy to
point to these areas in the middle of charts and to say how well they worked, but dealing
with decision making under the uncertainty of the hard right edge is quite a different
matter. Be ﬂexible and open to the message of developing price action; always attach the
qualiﬁer potential when considering any support or resistance level.
In addition, support and resistance should properly be thought of as zones or areas
rather than exact lines. If you were drawing them on paper charts, just like trend lines,
a crayon might be the appropriate tool, not a drafting pen. It is unrealistic to expect
prices to come to a potential resistance level and to stop precisely at the level. It is far
more likely to see prices stop at some point in front of the level, or for the level to be
violated. If the level is signiﬁcant and closely watched by many market participants, it is
not uncommon to see large spikes through the level, followed quickly by renewed selling
at the resistance level. Consider this action in the context of the classic Wyckoff springs
and upthrusts discussed earlier; traders need to consider this point in their process of
risk and trade management.
Broken Support Becomes Resistance
One of the classic rules of support and resistance is that support, once violated, becomes
resistance. Conversely, resistance, once violated, becomes support. (You already should
be thinking, “Wait a minute—support, once violated, becomes potential resistance.”) The
reason given for this is that traders made a stand at a previous resistance level by at-
tempting to sell enough to hold down prices. They failed when price traded through
that resistance, and those traders incurred losses on their short positions that were en-
tered at the level. If price returns to the same level after trading higher, they will be at
breakeven on their shorts and will cover them (buy them back) in an attempt to reduce
further losses, or so the theory goes. Their previous selling efforts at a level now turn
into buying pressure at the same level, which may be able to at least temporarily halt a
rally. Schematically, this pattern looks something like Figure 4.1; after resistance breaks
(A), we can anticipate possible support when price trades back to the level that was
formerly resistance.
The Dark Secret of Support and Resistance
We can ﬁnd many examples of this principle in real market action. Consider the following
examples where a support level, once violated, becomes resistance and vice versa, on
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c04 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:30 Printer: Hamilton Printing
On Trading Ranges 99
A
B
FIGURE 4.1 Resistance Becomes Support
intraday charts of Baidu, Inc. (Nasdaq: BIDU), a fairly volatile and active stock at the
time. Notice how well these levels are deﬁned, and how well they hold on the retests.
Figure 4.2 shows a classic example where a resistance level held at A, was broken at B,
and then held cleanly as support on a retest at C.
Figure 4.3 shows another example where previous support was broken, but then
held as resistance on three successive retests. Note in particular that the last retest saw
FIGURE 4.2 Resistance Breaks (B) and Holds as Support on the Retest
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c04 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:30 Printer: Hamilton Printing
100 MARKET STRUCTURE
FIGURE 4.3 Support Breaks, but Holds as Resistance on Three Retests
price trade well through the level, but sellers quickly won and drove the market lower.
It is common to see price penetrate a level just enough to lure traders into making the
wrong decisions at these points. In this case, shorts using the level to manage their risk
would have likely bought to cover, as it seemed resistance was failing; this type of action
and reversal is often a catalyst for a strong move when the trapped traders panic out of
their positions.
Last, Figure 4.4 shows an example in which a level was engaged nine times in the
space of two trading days, holding cleanly on all but two of the tests.
These are textbook examples of price action around support and resistance levels,
but there is one small problem: the levels in these examples are random price levels!
These are not actual support and resistance levels; they were drawn by hiding the price
bars and randomly drawing lines on the chart without regard to prices or market struc-
ture. (This was done on a live video available at http://adamhgrimes.com/blog/2011/12/04/
randomsrlevels/) You can, and should, reproduce this experiment yourself. This is an ex-
periential process—you must actually do this yourself, ideally several times. You may be
very surprised to see that many of the standard patterns around support and resistance
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c04 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:30 Printer: Hamilton Printing
On Trading Ranges 101
FIGURE 4.4 Clear Resistance Is Tested Multiple Times, Breaks (A), and Then Holds Cleanly as
Support When Retested (B)
occur around these random levels in just the same way. Almost any random line drawn
in the market will function as believable support or resistance.
Create Your Own Support and Resistance Levels
1. Take a price chart of any market and hide the bars. Depending on your charting pack-
age, there are many ways to do this, but the easiest is probably to set the color of the
bars the same as the background of the chart.
2. Draw random lines on the chart. They may slant as trend lines, be horizontal, or even
be curves. When you draw them, you will be drawing on a blank chart space, so many
of the lines will not touch prices. This is ﬁne—they are random lines, after all.
3. Restore the price bars and then look at each point where price touches your random
lines. Imagine that these are important levels, generated by whatever process you use
to ﬁnd your support and resistance levels.
(Continued )
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c04 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:30 Printer: Hamilton Printing
102 MARKET STRUCTURE
4. Another reﬁnement, if your charting package will allow it, is to draw lines on higher
time frames (weekly or monthly) and then switch the price chart to intraday (5- to 30-
minute), preserving the same lines on the chart. Again, examine with fresh eyes each
spot where price touches the level.
5. Now, ask yourself if the support and resistance levels you are using are better than
these lines. Are you sure?
In almost all cases, when you ask traders how they know that the levels they are
using are actually valid, the answer is something like, “Well, look at how it works. Can’t
you just see that these are good levels from the way the market trades around them?” The
answer is, “No, you can’t.” Your eye will be fooled by the presence of a line on the chart,
and you cannot trust your subjective evaluation of levels. Remember, if something is
random, we cannot use it to make money; so the question you really need to ask yourself
is: how do you know the levels you are using are any better than random levels? This is
a question of profound importance that few traders consider deeply.
Support and Resistance in Action
Leaving aside for now this critical concern about the validity of levels, let’s consider some
practical issues of trading support and resistance. In most cases, the most signiﬁcant
support and resistance levels, the ones that are more likely to have an actual impact on
prices, are levels that are very obvious on a chart. When these levels do work in a clearly
nonrandom fashion, it is usually because many market participants are watching them,
and they are obvious to everyone. Visible pivots (especially on higher time frames), levels
that have been tested several times, extremes of large spikes, and the highs and lows of
the previous day are examples of areas that may attract unusual attention and interest
from market participants.
Expected Value around Support and Resistance Figure 4.5 illustrates a com-
mon fallacy about trading around support and resistance. Imagine you are contemplating
buying the market at the point marked “??” and you broadly reason that there are only
two possible price paths. If price goes down a small amount, the support level will be
violated, so you can justify a very tight stop. On the other hand, there seems to be virtu-
ally unlimited upside potential. Many traders make the mistake of thinking that they can
buy very close to support with tight stops because the potential reward is much greater.
They reason that if the reward is 10 times larger than their risk, they can be wrong many
times and still make money.
To see the problem with this plan, assume for a moment that the market in Figure 4.5
is a random walk market, and you will have a reward of 10 units for a risk of 1 unit if
you buy the market at the point marked with the question marks. If the random walk
describes the price path, then over a large set of trades, you will discover that your win
ratio is a little over 9 percent, leaving an expected value of zero. If you try some other
strategy—taking smaller proﬁts, for instance—your win ratio will increase, but now the
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c04 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:30 Printer: Hamilton Printing
On Trading Ranges 103
Potential Support
??
FIGURE 4.5 If Reward Is Much Greater Than Risk, Is It Always a Good Idea to Buy Here?
reward/risk ratio will also shift, again resulting in an expected value of zero. There is no
possible way to proﬁt in a random walk market— this is absolutely axiomatic.I fi ti sn o t
intuitive, you must work with these concepts until it is; without that understanding, it is
very difﬁcult to trade proﬁtably.
So there is no escaping this truth—if you are buying in front of support or shorting
in front of resistance, you must have an edge beyond just having a much larger proﬁt
target than stop loss. You must have a reason for expecting nonrandom price action off
the level.
Clean or Sloppy Tests Support and resistance often do not hold perfectly clean
tests. Allowing for these sloppy tests may sometimes lure us into seeing levels where
none actually exist, but they actually are a reality of market action. There is no perfect
solution here, but one thing to consider is the past history of price action around a level. If
it has been violated many times with sloppy tests, it is reasonable to assume that future
tests will also be sloppy. Figure 4.6 shows examples of several sloppy support tests in
Netﬂix, Inc. (Nasdaq: NFLX) on a daily chart. Just by looking at the chart, you can see
this stock has not held clean levels in the past, so it would be unrealistic to expect it to
start doing so in the future.
However, even if a market does tend to hold levels cleanly, this does not mean that
these levels are easy to trade. It might seem as though a good plan would be to get a
position as close to a level as possible, and to stop out a tick on the other side of the
level. In many cases, the catalyst for an up move may be a drop of clean support, which
will generate volatile selling as stop orders are triggered, followed by strong buying that
pushes the market back above the level. (Obviously, the reverse applies for resistance.)
The market essentially knows where stop orders are likely to cluster, and those stops will
often be targeted. Figure 4.7 shows some examples of very clean support and resistance
on an intraday chart of Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (NYSE: FCX). (Note that
the lines have been offset from prices to highlight the clean tests.) Though the eye is
drawn to these clean levels, notice that this same chart has other points with sloppier
tests of levels.
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c04 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:30 Printer: Hamilton Printing
104 MARKET STRUCTURE
FIGURE 4.6 Sloppy Tests of Support in NFLX
FIGURE 4.7 Clean Support and Resistance in FCX
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c04 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:30 Printer: Hamilton Printing
On Trading Ranges 105
Stop Placement for Support and Resistance In considering stop placement,
there is a trade-off between close stops that allow tight risk points with lower probability
and wider stops that result in larger, infrequent losses. At ﬁrst glance, it would seem like
further stops are always preferable since they give the market more room to ﬂuctuate and
a higher probability of the trade being proﬁtable, but there is another factor to consider:
many traders will size positions based on the risk in the trade. (See Chapters 8 and 9.)
Tighter stops allow larger position sizes and potentially better reward/risk ratios, so there
is good reason to use stops that are as tight as is reasonably possible. The right answer
depends on a combination of your style and personality, and the reality of the speciﬁc
market you are trading.
In general, there are three speciﬁc areas where you might consider placing stops
against support levels. In Figure 4.8, imagine that you have established a long position in
Natural Gas futures somewhere near the right edge of the chart. The three possible stop
areas are marked on this chart.
Stop B is probably the most logical stop, a tick beyond the most extreme level
reached in the support area. This stop has the beneﬁt of respecting the geometry of the
FIGURE 4.8 Three Stop Levels
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c04 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:30 Printer: Hamilton Printing
106 MARKET STRUCTURE
pattern as faithfully as possible, but a violation of this level does not necessarily mean
that the range has broken. It is entirely possible that your stop will be hit, and then the
range will hold against the new, lower support level, or that this level will drop and be im-
mediately rebid in the classic Wyckoff spring. The danger with this stop is that the level
is visible to everyone. It is an obvious point in the market and you can sometimes incur
severe slippage due to many orders being clustered at the same price. Another option,
but a bad one, is to put a stop two or three ticks beyond the level. In almost all cases,
if the market trades to the low of that bar, it will trade below it. By placing your stop a
few ticks out, all you are doing is increasing the chance that your stop will be hit while
prices are moving with strong momentum, which will increase the potential for slip-
page. Do not place stops in areas that are likely to suffer from poor liquidity and adverse
order ﬂow.
There is also good justiﬁcation for stop C, which is a more or less random distance
below the low point of the range. The question is how far is far enough, and there is
no good answer. It is entirely possible that you could put your stop some distance be-
low the B stop, only to have it hit by the momentum below the bottom of the range.
This is ideally where you would like to be buying to initiate a position if supported by
other factors, so this is almost the worst exit possible. To some extent, it is possible to
judge the required distance by the character of the market, as some markets tend to be
more vulnerable to spikes than others, but surprises will happen. You will sometimes
see very thin, volatile markets put in polite drops below the bottom of the range, and
you will also see completely unprecedented slippage in nonvolatile markets. There is no
perfect answer.
The stop marked A, actually inside the support level, seems to make little sense at
ﬁrst. At this point, support is still holding and the trade is still valid, so why does it make
sense to stop out of the trade here? This stop will seem very foreign, and perhaps silly,
to many traders, but give it some careful consideration. It has the beneﬁt of virtually
eliminating slippage even in thin markets because you are exiting long before the mass
of other stop orders is hit. Ideally, put the A stop somewhere you can be reasonably
certain that, if the market goes there, it will also drop below the B stop level. Again, it is
not possible to do this every time perfectly, but many traders will ﬁnd that the A stop is
a valuable addition to their tool set.
The most important thing here is that you must have a stop at the time the trade is
initiated. Stop placement can be so complicated that it may seem like you should just
buy and get out when the market really drops below the level without having a clearly
deﬁned plan. The problem is that sometimes the market drops below the level and it
is the beginning of an extended trend—it drops and never looks back. Being caught in
a single trade like this can do signiﬁcant damage to your account; your ﬁrst job is to
manage the risk of any trade, and to limit the damage from losing trades.
Special Dangers of Clean Support/Resistance Levels that have shown mul-
tiple clean tests are potentially dangerous because many traders may be lulled into
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c04 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:30 Printer: Hamilton Printing
On Trading Ranges 107
establishing very large positions with stops just on the other side of the level. When
these levels are violated, the triggering of these stops can lead to extreme slippage be-
yond the level, sometimes resulting in a loss that is several times your intended risk.
Couple this with the possibility that you may be holding a very large position due to the
anticipated small risk, and this is a recipe for disaster. If trading against a clean level,
keep the following points in mind:
r Clean levels actually tend to set up good breakout trades beyond the level.
r Expect additional volatility and slippage. Your risk is probably at least twice what
you think it is. In intraday trading with very tight stops, losses of 5 to 10 times your
intended risk are possible.
r Do not give your trade “a little more room” beyond the level. Think about what will
happen if it is a good breakout trade against your position and turns out to be the
beginning of a substantial trend run.
r If holding overnight, these levels are prone to large overnight gap risk, and, further-
more, these tend to be opening gaps that do not reverse.
r Even with these complications, it is possible to trade against these levels if you do it
correctly and respect the additional risk they bring to the trade.
Classic Accumulation/Distribution Some of the most important information we
can get within trading ranges comes from the presence of price structures that suggest
large interests are accumulating or distributing the stock. It is also worth mentioning that
analysts and traders have considered the volume and changes in volume to be extremely
important around these areas, but I have been unable to substantiate those claims in my
own work. I realize that this will strike many technical traders as heresy, and there are
many obvious examples of patterns with strong volume conﬁrmation or support. (This
is not the same as saying that volume is unimportant. I have not found volume to be
important and have found my trading signals to be as reliable as those generated by
traders who focus on volume, but there may well be aspects of volume analysis that I
am missing.) However, closer inspection of a large number of chart patterns will ﬁnd
that volume helps as much as it hurts, that good signals occur as often with or without
volume conﬁrmation, and, in the end, it is simply another degree of freedom to deal with.
Simplify, simplify, simplify.
Wyckoff terminology for these patterns, springs and upthrusts, can be confusing
at ﬁrst glance. A spring is a quick drop below support, which immediately ﬁnds enough
demand to push prices back above support. An upthrust is a push above resistance, fol-
lowed by an immediate failure as the market meets sufﬁcient supply to push it back
down. Both of these are essentially fake-outs, which do nothing more than run stops
outside of support and resistance. We do not need to create elaborate structures or pat-
terns; sometimes simple is better, and these two simple price patterns, taken in context
of the bigger picture, are among the best tools to identify accumulation or distribution.
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c04 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:30 Printer: Hamilton Printing
108 MARKET STRUCTURE
Spring
Upthrust
break below
Confirmed
support
FIGURE 4.9 A Spring and an Upthrust in an Idealized Trading Range
Figure 4.9 shows examples of both springs and upthrusts, with a conﬁrmed break below
support at the end of the chart.
The key to both of these patterns is that they are quick probes beyond support and
resistance. A trader watching the market around these areas would probably comment
that there was “no conviction” beyond the level, or that prices did not want to “hang
out” at the new extremes. Psychologically, these formations usually suggest that there
are a number of traders who are afraid of being trapped out of the market. Imagine you
are a large buyer looking to buy as close to a speciﬁc price (the bottom of the range)
as possible; your goal is to get the best price you can by buying as low as you can. If
the market trades down to that price, you may buy a little, but if it is weak you might
hold off a bit to see if it will fall even lower. If the market then trades through your
buy point, you may buy a little more, but you might also be willing to let the market
continue to fall. Why hold it up with your own buying if you can buy lower? However,
if the market drops below your target price and other traders buy aggressively, you may
now be concerned about having to chase prices higher. In this case, you would be forced
to buy very aggressively, quickly driving prices back above support. This type of thought
process, in the aggregate from thousands of traders, drives much of the price action
around these levels.
There are always two sides to every trade, and it is a good mental exercise to cul-
tivate the practice of trying to see price action from as many different perspectives as
possible. Imagine that you are a trader shorting the market into the same level where
the previous buyer was willing to buy. You are looking for weakness and further ex-
tension below the level, so what do you do in the same scenario? Once price drops be-
low the level and now is back above, you realize that the breakdown has failed. Rather
than hold a failed trade, most traders would elect to buy back the short. Your cover-
ing is buying pressure; it makes no difference whether traders are buying to establish
positions or to cover shorts. Buying is buying, and, all other things being equal, it will
push prices higher.
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c04 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:30 Printer: Hamilton Printing
On Trading Ranges 109
Price Action around Support/Resistance One of the reasons for attaching the
qualiﬁer potential to support and resistance is to remind us that these levels do not al-
ways hold. When traders are ﬁrst introduced to these concepts, they expect that support
and resistance areas will be lines that will contain price movements on charts and that
trades can be easily set up on these levels. This is the most basic entry-level knowledge,
and the problem with it is that it is not true. It is much more difﬁcult to identify true
levels than many traders think (i.e., they are much more rare than much of the trad-
ing literature suggests), and, in actual practice, these levels break just about as often
as they hold. For instance, one deﬁnition of a trend is that it is a type of price move-
ment or price action that breaks support or resistance—the repeated failure of support
or resistance is what actually drives trends. When resistance eventually is able to hold
against an uptrend, the trend will pause and the market will enter consolidation. Fortu-
nately, there are some characteristic patterns associated with levels holding or breaking
that can inform our analysis around these levels. Time spent studying these patterns and
considering the variations that can occur in all time frames is time well spent. A good
understanding of how levels hold or break will do much to enhance your ability to read
the market.
The archetypical pattern of a level holding isprice rejection. This is an objective fea-
ture of price action, but it is also appropriate to talk about subjective elements because
the market is responding to the psychology of decision makers in these areas. Ideally,
when price reaches a support area that will hold, there is an immediate (in the context of
the time frame) and sharp movement away from the level. It feels like price simply does
not want to be there at all, and the market immediately moves away from the level. Fig-
ure 4.10 shows a particularly dramatic example of price rejection in the AUDJPY, which
came into a potential support area and was strongly rejected in a single session. These
tests are rarely as dramatic as this one, but successful tests of support and resistance
will always have some element of price rejection.
This AUDJPY level illustrates another important point about support and resistance.
In general, most traders ﬁnd that the difﬁcult trades to execute are often the best trades.
It is very easy to buy a market as it grinds down into a support level, but it would
have been much harder to buy the AUDJPY near that extreme support level. The best
tests of support and resistance usually combine an objective, clear level with some
form of overextension. In other words, a large price spike down to support is likely
to set up a better bounce from that level than would a slow trend down into support.
In fact, a market trending down into support is not showing price rejection, and this
type of pressure often presages a signiﬁcant break of support. The quick spike test,
or a test of an oversold market coming into support, requires real execution skills, as
prices will be moving quickly, spreads will be wide, and there may be an extreme lack
of liquidity in the book. In addition, there is the chance of a large loss if prices con-
tinue to drop or drop even faster. But skilled traders ﬁnd that they are compensated
for these risks by quick proﬁts and a good expected value over a large set of these
trades. If you are uncomfortable buying spikes to support or shorting spikes to resis-
tance, consider adding these to your trading plan. At the very least, it may make sense to
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c04 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:30 Printer: Hamilton Printing
110 MARKET STRUCTURE
FIGURE 4.10 Price Rejection in the AUDJPY
watch for trend termination patterns on lower time frames when one of these patterns
is underway.
Multiple Tests This is not to say that price will touch the level once, never to re-
turn. It is certainly possible for a level to have multiple tests, and it can be difﬁcult
to read the balance of buying and selling conviction on these subsequent tests. Each
test actually weakens the level because price should not be able to return to the level
if it is going to hold. If there is genuine demand at a level, why did buyers not chase
prices higher? Why are we back here? Those are the questions you need to ask. Tradi-
tional technical analysis tells us that a level is more valid the more times it is tested,
but I believe that this is one of those pieces of the conventional wisdom that is ab-
solutely wrong. If a level is going to hold, it should be tested once, twice, or maybe
three times, and then there should be a move away from the level backed by strong con-
viction. If price is able to return to the level three or more times, probabilities begin
to shift in favor of the level breaking. Traders make a critical mistake when they buy
in front of the same support level multiple times, because the conﬁdence that comes
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c04 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:30 Printer: Hamilton Printing
On Trading Ranges 111
FIGURE 4.11 Multiple Tests of Support in RIMM Precede a Failure
with earlier successes leads to the temptation to increase position size. This is a recipe
for disaster.
Levels can be tested multiple times and still hold, but you should be very suspicious
of them after two tests. Ideally, the key is that we need to see renewed price rejection
on each of the tests. If we do not see this, if price returns to the level and there is not
enough conviction to push price away from the level, this is much more indicative of
the level failing. If the market is able to go quiet and dull at or near the level, this is of-
ten a harbinger of impending failure. Figure 4.11 shows a 78-minute chart of Research
in Motion Limited (Nasdaq: RIMM). (78-minute charts divide the U.S. trading session for
equities into ﬁve equal periods. Traders using hourly charts will always have a bar that is
longer or shorter than the others.) Traders buying support should have been suspicious
on the third test of the level; there was no justiﬁcation for holding or initiating posi-
tions on any subsequent tests of this level. The selling began in earnest once the level
was decisively violated.
A useful tool for traders developing a sense of price action around support and resis-
tance levels is a very short-term (2- or 3-period) lower time frame moving average. The
only purpose of the moving average in this case is to smooth out the smallest ﬂuctuations
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c04 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:30 Printer: Hamilton Printing
112 MARKET STRUCTURE
FIGURE 4.12 Price Rejection at Support
in prices in order to highlight the overall intent behind the moves. Though it is possible
to use a similar technique on the trading time frame, dropping down to the lower time
frame, at least for the purposes of study and learning, will help to build intuition about
what kind of price action can generate structures seen on the trading time frame. Fig-
ure 4.12 shows a 2-period moving average on 15-minute price bars of Goldman Sachs
Group, Inc. (NYSE: GS). The price bars have been ghosted to better highlight the action
of the moving average as the market comes into a potential support area marked near the
bottom of the chart. (This level is based on price structure not visible off the left edge
of the chart.) Note that the moving average comes near the level and is violently turned
away at A.
Figure 4.13 shows another example, in this case where GS came up against a resis-
tance level. Note that the initial price rejection, at A, was weak and had no conviction.
Price quickly found itself back up against the level, and consolidated there for many bars
at B. This is not what we should see if a level is going to hold, and price did eventually
break through at C. Study these patterns well, at ﬁrst with the aid of a moving average
as in Figures 4.12 and 4.13, and then without. If a support or resistance will hold or fail,
price rejection will usually tell the tale.
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c04 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:30 Printer: Hamilton Printing
On Trading Ranges 113
FIGURE 4.13 No Price Rejection at Resistance
Consolidation leads to a break of the level.
Last, it is worth mentioning that there is a third possibility for price action around po-
tential support and resistance areas, which isno action at all. The market may approach
a level and trade through it with no pause or unusual price action; the anticipated level
simply was not there, and, if we have not planned for the possibility that the level simply
does not exist, it is easy to be taken by surprise. Plan for every possibility and actively
work to reduce potential surprises that can unbalance you and lead to poor decisions.
TRADING RANGES AS FUNCTIONAL STRUCTURES
Markets tend to alternate between trending periods and trading ranges. In trends, prices
continue moving in the same direction. Because these trends are driven by an imbalance
of buying or selling pressure, price movements are somewhat persistent and more pre-
dictable in terms of direction, magnitude, and timing. Trading ranges are directionless
areas where the market is in relative equilibrium. In these spots, price action is much
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c04 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:30 Printer: Hamilton Printing
114 MARKET STRUCTURE
more random; price action within the range, timing of the exit from the range, and the
direction of that eventual exit are all much less predictable than corresponding points in
trending markets. Because markets in trading ranges tend to approximate random walks,
most traders are well advised to avoid trading within the randomness of these structures
and to limit any involvement to the margins, near support or resistance.
In context, trading ranges generally have one of two structural functions relative to
the previous trend: they can be large-scale continuation patterns, or they can function
as reversal patterns. Traders who are aware of these different functions, and of some
of the distinguishing factors that may tilt the odds in favor of one resolution over the
other, can often position for the next major trend move within the trading range. Note
that this is not the same as trading within the range itself; a trader following this plan is
essentially positioning within a higher time frame structure and ignoring minute details
on the trading time frame. This is potentially confusing, so some examples will help to
clarify this concept.
Continuation Ranges
Traditional technical analysis tells us that, all other things being equal, trading ranges
are usually consolidations in the trend that preceded them, and are usually continuation
patterns. In my experience, this is one of the pieces of conventional wisdom that is cor-
rect; it makes sense to approach most ranges with the idea that they will be continuation
patterns, that the trend will continue and is “innocent until proven guilty.” It is also often
helpful to consider these formations on higher time frames. After an extended trend run
on the trading time frame, the market may be essentially unreadable on that time frame
as it enters into a large trading range with many unpredictable movements. However, the
higher time frame will often tell a simple story: the trading time frame trend may have
pushed the higher time frame into an overbought or overextended condition, and the un-
readable range on the trading time frame is actually just a simple pullback on the higher
time frame. This is a case of a higher time frame providing clarity by pulling us up out of
the noise on the focus time frame.
Consider Figure 4.14, which shows daily and weekly charts of the S&P 500 Cash
index in late 2008. The daily chart in the left pane is a mess; it is very hard to suss out any
useful information from this chart—there are many competing and conﬂicting technical
factors, and the best we can do is to label it some kind of trading range. However, the
weekly chart tells a very different story, and shows a clear pullback in a downtrend. This
is a case where the longer range on the daily chart resolves into a simple continuation
pattern on the higher time frame.
Reversal Ranges
The other possibility is that the range can be a reversal of the higher time frame trend.
Any of the factors that can suggest an end of a trend on one time frame (overextension,
momentum divergence, speciﬁc terminating formations, etc.) apply to all time frames.
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c04 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:30 Printer: Hamilton Printing
On Trading Ranges 115
FIGURE 4.14 The Weekly Chart (Right) Clariﬁes an Otherwise Unreadable Situation on the Daily
Chart (Left)
Figure 4.15 shows the S&P 500 Cash index again, this time at the highs in early 2010. The
weekly was overextended, and daily price action suggested a certain lack of conviction
at the highs. Again, to show that this isn’t hindsight analysis, here is what I wrote in my
morning report on April 26, 2010, the point marked A on the daily chart: “The market
[may be] vulnerable so that when a shock ﬁnally does hit, the effect may be out of all
reasonable proportion. This is why we are focusing attention on ﬁnding a good spot to
enter a countertrend trade. ... Today, we have a potential trade setup in the S&P 500
index. If the index closes below the previous YTD high ... we will be short.” This turned
out to be the exact high of the market for many months, and we were fortunate to cover
the last of that short a few days later, near the lows on the day of the Flash Crash.
It is also worth mentioning that there are many cases in which it is not so simple to
make a directional call. Though we have just looked at several good examples, realize
that they are best-case situations. Sometimes it is not possible to make any kind of di-
rectional call, and traders have no justiﬁcation for taking a position. In these cases it is
appropriate to stay ﬂat (to have no position) and to wait for further clariﬁcation before
making a trade.
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c04 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:30 Printer: Hamilton Printing
116 MARKET STRUCTURE
FIGURE 4.15 A Potential Reversal on the Weekly Gives a Downward Bias to the Trading Range
on the Daily
Volatility Conditions in Trading Ranges
I believe it is counterproductive to catalog too many variations of patterns within trading
ranges, due to the random nature of price action within these ranges. The Edwards and
Magee crowd will recognize more than a dozen variations of trading ranges, but, to me,
they are all the same. They all fulﬁll one of two functions in the higher time frame, and
they are all noisy patterns roughly bounded by support and resistance. Why clutter a sim-
ple model with unnecessary variations, qualiﬁcations, and conditions? Visually, the most
important factor in distinguishing between different types of ranges is what is happening
with the edges of the range. Is the range contained by parallel lines, are the edges con-
verging, or are they expanding? Each of these may have some subtle differences, with
some effect on the expected resolution of the patterns.
Parallel Ranges: The Box The simplest range is one that trades between parallel
prices in a box formation; volatility is relatively constant for the duration of the range.
On the lower time frame, we will see trends (it is a little-known fact that many of the best
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c04 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:30 Printer: Hamilton Printing
On Trading Ranges 117
Drop below range just expands the 
range. Support is now lower.
FIGURE 4.16 A Simple Parallel Range
trends occur within higher time frame consolidations) that terminate in the trading time
frame support and resistance. The conﬁnes of the range may be violated, but violations
will usually be short-lived. It is also possible to see prices probe to a level and hold
slightly beyond the range, and for the range to now trade between these expanded price
levels. Do not naively assume that every break of a range will lead to an actual breakout.
Many times, the range is simply expanded, as in Figure 4.16.
A common variation of this box pattern is the diagonal trading range, which is a box
with sloping sides. This is a very common structure as a retracement in the higher time
frame trend, and, in fact, the diagonal range sloping against the higher time frame trend
(see Figure 4.17) could be considered the most common pullback pattern. Again, there
may be lower time frame trends within this trading time frame trading range, and there
may be temporary violations of the edges of the range—do not expect perfect, clean
tests. This pattern is especially important because it often deﬁnes a complex pullback.
Be on guard for springs near support in larger-scale uptrends, and for upthrusts near the
highs of these patterns in downtrends. These offer exceptional entries into higher time
frame trends.
FIGURE 4.17 A Sloping Parallel Range Is a Very Common Continuation Pattern
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c04 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:30 Printer: Hamilton Printing
118 MARKET STRUCTURE
FIGURE 4.18 A Tighter Consolidation Against Resistance Often Leads to a Break of That
Resistance
One ﬁnal structure to be aware of is a tight consolidation near the edge of one side
of the range, as in Figure 4.18. Remember, if the edges of the range are going to hold as
support or resistance, the pattern we expect to see is price rejection near the level. If,
instead, prices are able to consolidate and hold near one side of the range, this is more
indicative of pressure building against that side of the range. This is a classic precursor
of breakout, and many chartists would read this as a smaller range inside a bigger range,
a not incorrect deﬁnition. Furthermore, this pattern is also the basis for the classic cup
and handle chart pattern, but reading the simple dynamics of emerging market structure
will usually give a better read on the market than any chart pattern.
Converging Ranges Trading ranges are periods of relative consensus, where the
market tends to trade around a price level in equilibrium. One common variation of the
trading range idea sees the market making successively smaller swings, as if zeroing in
on a target price level. The edges of this range appear to converge at some point in the
future, and this pattern often appears to be a triangle on price charts, as in Figure 4.19.
Traditionally, the assumption is that these triangles set up good breakout trades, and
there are many rules regarding direction and price targets for these breakouts. I have
not found any of these traditional rules to be effective or reliable; sometimes they work
FIGURE 4.19 A Converging Range
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c04 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:30 Printer: Hamilton Printing
On Trading Ranges 119
FIGURE 4.20 An Ascending Triangle. Holding Higher Lows into Resistance Is a Sign of Increasing
Buying Pressure
well, but just as often they do not. My trading rules for triangles are simple and reduce to
one principle: do not fade the ﬁrst breakout from one of these formations. Though these
breakouts may not be reliable or consistent enough to build a trading program on, you
certainly do not want to be caught on the wrong side of a strong move out of any kind of
consolidation.
There are many variations of these converging ranges, which chartists describe as
symmetrical triangles, ascending or descending triangles, wedges, pennants, and so on,
usually with the qualiﬁcation that “volume is very important in these formations.” (How
do they know that?) Most of these are traditionally taken to be continuation patterns, but,
for me, it is simple: they are all basically the same pattern. They clearly show volatility
compression, which puts us on guard and in breakout mode, looking for continuation of
any breakout from these ranges. There is one exception that might be slightly more sig-
niﬁcant: the ascending triangle (see Figure 4.20), where price holds successively smaller
declines (higher lows) into a clearly deﬁned resistance level (or the same formation, in-
verted, to the downside). This type of pattern typically shows strengthening conviction
on the part of buyers, reﬂected in weakening price rejection from resistance, and usually
leading to a breakout above that resistance. This is another pattern that sets up good
breakout trades.
Whenever a market makes a very large, sharp movement in one direction, followed
by a similar move in the other direction, this suggests confusion on the part of market
participants as they try to process whatever information caused the price shock. The
normal expectation, following this kind of price movement, is for the market to spend a
period of time consolidating, most likely in some kind of converging triangle formation.
It is very common to see traders incur multiple losses in these areas because they are
ﬁrst drawn to the market by the large price movements, and then they get caught in the
random oscillations of the triangle. Simply by recognizing that a large spike followed by a
quick reverse spike usually leads to a triangle and a very suboptimal trading environment,
many of these losses can be avoided.
Expanding Ranges Chartists also recognize a number of formations relating to
widening triangles where each swing, both up and down, is bigger than the preced-
ing swings. There are also a number of diamond-shaped formations where price ﬁrst
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c04 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:30 Printer: Hamilton Printing
120 MARKET STRUCTURE
FIGURE 4.21 An Expanding Range
expands and then contracts in a classic triangle, and, of course, there are associated
trading rules and targets for each formation. My rule for these is simple: the market is
confused (as evidenced by the price action) and I do not have to have a position. I ﬁnd
it difﬁcult to deﬁne my risk or to control my positions when volatility is expanding in an
unpredictable (nondirectional) fashion. Furthermore, these areas tend to expend a lot of
stored-up energy and we do not often see strong moves out of these patterns. More often
than not, they resolve into random, directionless, low-volatility ranges. As much as pos-
sible, I avoid these types of environments or at least signiﬁcantly reduce risk in them, but
this may not be the right answer for all traders. Figure 4.21 shows a schematic example
of a widening range.
SUMMARY
Compared to trends, trading ranges are more complicated, and present more challenges
and dangers to traders who would trade within these structures. The highly random na-
ture of price action in these ranges often creates illusions of patterns that do not exist.
In addition, lower volume and potential liquidity problems create a real danger of large
adverse price spikes which result in much larger than expected losing trades. However,
market structure rests on an alternation of trending and trading range patterns; it is not
possible to truly understand the story of how supply and demand plays out in the market
without a thorough understanding of trading ranges, and of price action around support
and resistance.
So far, we have looked at both trends and trading ranges in some depth, but our
study is still missing an important element. Many of the best opportunities come at those
points where trends become trading ranges and vice versa. Many of the largest losses
and greatest dangers also come in these areas, so it is important that we spend some
time studying price action and market structure in these transition areas.
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c05 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:35 Printer: Hamilton Printing
CHAPTER 5
Interfaces between
Trends and Ranges
What we call the beginning is often the end. And to make an end is to
make a beginning.
—T.S. Eliot
E
ven the most powerful market trends eventually come to an end, and they can do
so in several ways. Traders riding trends need to understand the patterns of trend
termination, but it is also equally important to consider what follows the end of a
trend. At best, these interfaces between trends and trading ranges are periods of great
uncertainty and potential volatility. At worst, many traders will ﬁnd that these are the
most difﬁcult areas of market structure to read reliably, and that they are the source of
consistent losses. These areas also offer the greatest opportunity for many traders, but
this opportunity is accompanied by risks and uncertainty. Using a simpliﬁed model of
market structure where markets are always either trending or in trading ranges, there
are only three possible transitions:
1. Breakout: A market breaks out of a trading range, and enters a trend.
2. Trend termination into trading range: An established trend ends, and the market
enters a trading range.
3. Trend reversal: An established trend ends, and reverses into a trend in the opposite
direction.
To this list we must add a few failures that may complicate issues. After the fact, we
might miss these areas as they will simply be continuations of previous conditions, but
a trader making decisions at the hard right edge of the chart would likely have placed
trades based on information available at the time. This difference between “middle of
the chart” (i.e., after the fact) analysis and trading at the right edge is poorly understood
121
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c05 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:35 Printer: Hamilton Printing
122 MARKET STRUCTURE
by many traders, and is a key reason why trading results often diverge from backtest and
study results. If we are going to do analysis that mirrors what a trader experiences as the
chart unfolds in real time, we must consider the new information provided by every bar
on the chart. To complete our analysis of possible scenarios, we need to also consider
these failure patterns:
r A market breaks out of a trading range, a new trend does not develop, and the market
remains locked in a larger trading range.
r An established trend appears to end, but the trend termination fails and the market
continues in the established trend.
Let’s consider some of the patterns, opportunities, and dangers associated with each
of these scenarios.
BREAKOUT TRADE: TRADING RANGE TO TREND
The term breakout trade is applied to a class of trades where the trader attempts to
enter in the direction the market is already moving, usually when a support or resistance
level is broken. Many breakout trades come at points where the market has pressed
against the same support or resistance level several times, but has been unable to break
(or hold) beyond that price level. Once the level is actually broken, pent-up buying or
selling pressure may drive the market into a sharp, dramatic trend. It is easy to ﬁnd
examples of good breakout trades on charts (see Figure 5.1) where a trader could have
realized an extremely high reward/risk ratio by taking a position on the breakout. There
are a number of proﬁtable trading systems that rely on breakout entries, and anecdotal
evidence suggests that this trade entry was one of the main concepts behind the Turtles’
success in the 1980s and 1990s. There is also good, simple logic for focusing on these
types of trades: if a market is going to go higher, it has to take out previous price highs. If
a market is going lower, it must take out previous lows in the process. Traders focusing
on breakout trades will naturally catch all the big trend moves.
There is a signiﬁcant problem—the majority of breakout trades fail. In most cases,
excursions beyond support or resistance are usually short-lived, as they are quickly met
by offsetting pressure that pushes the market back into the range. Traders indiscrimi-
nately entering breakouts would ﬁnd that any proﬁts they make would be eaten away by
transaction costs and by failed breakouts. In many cases, volatility is high and liquidity is
low at these points. Even in the best cases, with the best possible risk control, the small
losses will quickly add up. In the end, it is a case of death by a thousand cuts that will
slowly grind a trading account down to nothing.
There is a slight division in the trading world between equity traders and futures
traders regarding terminology for these trades. To most stock traders, a breakout is
speciﬁcally a break above resistance, while a breakdown is a break below support; in
other words, a breakout is a long trade, while a breakdown is a short. Futures traders,
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c05 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:35 Printer: Hamilton Printing
Interfaces between Trends and Ranges 123
FIGURE 5.1 Breakout Trade in DryShips Inc. (Nasdaq: DRYS), Summer 2007
however, tend to use the term breakout without distinction for both cases. In general,
most stock traders, especially nonprofessionals, view shorting in a different light than
going long, and futures traders are much less likely to have this bias. In this book, I use
breakout for both trades as well, since there is really no quantiﬁable difference between
the two.
Patterns Preceding Good Breakouts
The best breakout trades are driven by high institutional interest and involvement. Mar-
kets, especially deep, liquid ones, do not make large moves without the commitment of
large pools of money. In general, these large traders are usually trading positions that
are so large they could not enter them on the actual breakout. Small traders—the public
who, on balance, tend to lose money—focus a lot of attention on entering at the actual
breakout points. In many cases, the larger traders who are already positioned will take
advantage of the volatility and sell a portion of their positions to the small traders rush-
ing to buy the breakouts. Think about this if you trade breakouts; this is the pressure
that often results in failed breakouts. How smart is it for you to be buying where very
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c05 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:35 Printer: Hamilton Printing
124 MARKET STRUCTURE
large traders are selling, or vice versa? Since these large traders have often positioned
themselves before the breakout, they often create telltale patterns that help us separate
the best breakouts, driven by large-scale interest, from those that are more likely to fail.
Higher Lows into Resistance One of the classic patterns sees prices holding higher
lows into a more or less clearly deﬁned resistance level. To understand the signiﬁcance of
this ascending triangle pattern, imagine that a market is oscillating randomly in a trading
range, but then some large buyers become interested in accumulating a position. They
would naturally want to buy at as low a price as possible, so they would use the declines
to begin buying. Eventually their buying pressure will arrest the decline and the market
will resume its upward movement, at which point they will likely turn off their buying
to avoid paying elevated prices. Skilled operators could even offer some of their line
out, with the dual intent of booking a small proﬁt and of actually holding prices down
by their selling pressure. If several large buyers recognize this activity in the market,
they will become more aggressive in their buying, while still attempting to measure and
control it so as not to force prices higher. As competition in the market intensiﬁes and
buying interest builds, the declines will become shallower simply because more people
are buying them; this will force large traders to become even more aggressive in buying
at higher prices. A mild feedback loop develops within the trading range that often leaves
the patterns shown in Figure 5.2. This is often a setup for an excellent breakout trade,
and applies equally well, inverted, to the downside.
Tight Range Near Extreme of Larger Range Another pattern, conceptually sim-
ilar to the previous one, is a tight range near the edge of a larger, established trading
range. This tight range is often less than 25 percent of the height of the larger range, and
shows that large traders have become interested enough in the market to hold it near
the edge of the larger range. Why are they now willing to pay higher prices (or to short
at lower prices), rather than letting the market naturally drift back into the middle of
the range? This pattern suggests more urgency to their actions and more conviction, and
also frequently supports exceptional breakout trades. Figure 5.3 shows a schematic rep-
resentation of this pattern, which was mentioned in Chapter 4 as one of the classic signs
that support or resistance is likely to fail. Remember, a failure of support or resistance is
often a successful breakout trade.
FIGURE 5.2 Shorter Swings into Support or Resistance Often Set Up Good Breakouts
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c05 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:35 Printer: Hamilton Printing
Interfaces between Trends and Ranges 125
FIGURE 5.3 A Tighter Range Near the Edge of a Larger Range Often Precedes a Good Breakout
of That Edge
Prebreakout Accumulation At this point, you should realize that we are starting to
see the same patterns over and over. This is not rocket science; the patterns of the market
are subtle, but they are also logical and, at their core, they are simple. Earlier, we looked
at the classic Wyckoff springs and upthrusts as signs of accumulation and distribution.
If large players are positioning themselves in the range in anticipation of a breakout, it is
very likely that we will see these springs and upthrusts in the prebreakout ranges. Much
accumulation and distribution is invisible; institutions spend a lot of money on salaries
for skilled execution traders and in the development of execution algorithms. All of this
subterfuge is designed to hide the execution of these large orders. However, there are
points in the market where they cannot really hide their hands, and, if we know exactly
what to look for, we can sometimes get clues as to their intentions. Violations of support
and resistance in well-deﬁned ranges are important areas to watch. If excursions beyond
the range are short-lived, printing springs and upthrusts at the edges of the range, this
becomes strong evidence that large traders are positioning in the market, and often sets
up good breakout trades.
Characteristic Patterns at Good Breakouts
Again, a good breakout is driven by institutional interest that eventually garners the in-
terest of the public and results in a feedback loop that propels the market far from the
breakout point. It is overly optimistic to assume that prices will trade cleanly through
the breakout level and never come back. (This, incidentally, is the absolute best-case
scenario for breakout traders, and trades like this are rare.) However, there are some
common patterns at the actual breakout point that can separate the best breakout trades
from the rest.
High Volatility A breakout should be a clearly visible event. If a market approaches
a breakout point, trades tightly below the point with signiﬁcant signs of accumulation,
and then very politely and gently lifts through resistance to trade higher, this is probably
not a good sign. Good breakouts are driven by unusual order ﬂow, so we need to see
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c05 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:35 Printer: Hamilton Printing
126 MARKET STRUCTURE
increased volume, activity, and interest associated with the actual breakout. In general,
the ranges of individual bars should expand, and they almost always will expand on
lower time frames. Breakouts from less signiﬁcant levels may not always see this
increased volatility, but a good breakout that marks a transition to an extended trend
is almost always a volatile event. Note that it may be difﬁcult to measure this volatility
with traditional measures, but the quantitative measures that will be most useful will
be instantaneous measures of volatility such as the ratio of the current bar’s range to a
window of previous bars.
Slippage Is Good The difference between the intended and actual execution prices
in a trade is called slippage. If a trader is planning on paying a breakout above $20.00
and receives ﬁlls at $20.20, this is 20 cents of slippage and can be a signiﬁcant cost of
trading. Most traders think of slippage as only that: a bad thing, a cost to be avoided.
However, around breakout points, slippage is actually desirable. It should be difﬁcult to
buy a market making a good breakout. You should have to pay higher prices to get in if
the market is really moving.
Many traders panic when they receive signiﬁcant slippage. A bad ﬁll is seen as in-
creasing risk and cutting into proﬁts, and it is hard to argue with this logic, at least on the
surface. Think deeper, though, and consider the possible reasons for the bad ﬁll. Some-
times it may be the trader’s fault, in which case it should probably be treated as an error
and is subject to the error rule (i.e., ﬁx it immediately). However, slippage is a fact of life
in breakout trades. In fact, positive slippage, where you receive a better than expected
price, is often the killer here. Imagine you are looking to pay a breakout above $50.00 in
a fairly volatile market, expecting that you will be slipped and have to pay $50.05, $50.10,
or even $50.20. What if you execute your order and discover that you are ﬁlled for your
full size at $49.98? This isnot a good thing. Someone was willing to sell this market to you
at a great price, and caveat emptor—the selling pressure, against your potential break-
out, was stronger than expected. Positive slippage is often a sign of an impending failed
breakout trade.
Immediate Satisfaction The logical extension of all of these factors, and one of the
reasons that certain personality types are drawn to this kind of trading, is that the break-
out trader should receive immediate feedback on whether the trade is right or wrong.
As always, immediate must be taken in context. If trading intraday, then conﬁrmation
should come within seconds, but a trader trading on the weekly time frame might de-
mand some conﬁrmation of the trade within a few days. Immediate satisfaction does not
mean an instant win, and it does not mean an easy trade. A very short-term trader might
pay $20.15 for a breakout, only to see the stock trade to $20.30 in the next few seconds
and immediately be offered at $20.10. This is nothing more than extra volatility and or-
der ﬂow around the breakout level, which is to be expected, and the trader can now
begin the process of managing the trade. On the other hand, a breakout trade that is paid
for at $20.15 and then immediately begins to slowly grind lower is no breakout at all.
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c05 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:35 Printer: Hamilton Printing
Interfaces between Trends and Ranges 127
Especially for short-term traders, breakout trading can be exciting, and the immediate
feedback allows for rapid learning and skill development.
Patterns Following Good Breakouts
In a good breakout, the extra volatility and one-sided liquidity lead to a sharp move above
the breakout level. Nothing in the market continues indeﬁnitely, though, and eventually
this initial thrust gives way to a pause and a pullback. This is a critical point because,
if the breakout is the beginning of a new trend, this ﬁrst pullback after the breakout is
the optimal time to establish positions for the new trend. If the breakout is going to fail,
it is going to fail at this ﬁrst pullback. In addition, the character of the price action in
this ﬁrst pullback can communicate a lot of information about the conviction behind the
move and the character of the market.
Pullback Holds Outside the Breakout Level This is probably the most intuitive
example, and the one that many traders focus most of their efforts on. The market breaks
through the level, trades sharply beyond the level, and then makes a clean pullback that
holds outside the breakout level. This makes sense because there should be urgency and
real order ﬂow following the breakout. Large players should be interested in defend-
ing the breakout level, and small players should be willing—perhaps stupidly, but still
willing—to chase the market. All of this should logically result in the market being un-
able to come back to the breakout level. It is easy to ﬁnd examples of these patterns, and
also very easy to manage these trades that never come back to the entry price. Figure 5.4
shows schematic examples of this pattern.
Pullback Violates the Level It is certainly easiest to manage trades when the pull-
back holds outside the breakout level, because it is simple to put a breakeven stop at
your entry price and never be at a loss on the trade. For the trader, this is the ideal situa-
tion, but think about it for a moment; ask yourself why the market should work this way.
Why should the large players who positioned inside the range, and maybe even provided
some liquidity at the breakout point, defend the level precisely or aggressively? It is safe
to assume that many of them are working from a hybrid approach that combines valua-
tion with at least a quasi-technical approach. Though they may recognize the validity of
FIGURE 5.4 First Pullback Holds Outside Breakout Level
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c05 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:35 Printer: Hamilton Printing
128 MARKET STRUCTURE
the breakout as a price structure, many of them would also be perfectly happy to add to
their positions at lower prices.
There is an important lesson here for smaller traders: we would like clean, perfect
trades where the market almost magically respects lines we draw on our charts, but there
is no reason for the world to work like this. There is no logical reason for the market to
have to hold outside the breakout level. If you are a breakout trader, an interesting ex-
ercise is to take a reasonable sample of trades in your time frames (perhaps 500 trades),
go through them methodically, and categorize them into ones that held cleanly beyond
the breakout level and those that did not. Then ask yourself, objectively, if those that
conformed to the ideal pattern of holding outside the level performed better after the
breakout (in terms of trend extension) than those that did not.
There is also probably another dynamic at work here in many of these situations.
Imagine for a minute a simpliﬁed market model with only three groups of participants:
strong-hand large players who are trading on a mixture of technical and fundamental
concepts; small, nimble, but naive short-term traders who trade only off price levels; and
noise traders whose random trades obscure what would otherwise be very clear in the
price action. Furthermore, imagine that a breakout has just occurred, in which the large
players accumulated before the breakout, the small traders entered on the breakout, but,
after the breakout, the large players were not willing to commit enough capital to propel
the trend higher. Perhaps they had not yet accumulated their full line in the prebreak-
out level, perhaps they sold enough at the level that they wanted to buy more at lower
prices, or perhaps they were uncertain in front of some economic report. The point is
that we do not know and can never understand the real motivations of these large play-
ers, especially since we are presenting a composite model of what would actually be
thousands of competing interests in the actual market. Regardless, the key point is that
they choose, for whatever reasons, not to support the market and it drops back through
the prebreakout level.
What do the naive short-term traders do at this point? They recognize the failed
breakout pattern and sell their positions en masse just below the breakout level. Who
is buying from them? You got it—the large players are more than happy to pick up some
extra inventory from the nervous short-term players, who are taking small losses on po-
sitions they just bought at slightly higher prices. (And who, by the way, just sold them
those positions at those slightly higher prices?) The large traders will certainly be willing
to soak up this extra inventory. Once they see the selling dry up as the short-term traders
have fully exited their positions (or, in some cases, actually established short positions),
the large players only then will resume buying aggressively. At this point, the short-term
traders recognize the error of their ways, see that the breakout was valid after all, and
rush to get back into the market, but now they are entering a moving market in the di-
rection it is already moving. Their buying action will remove enough liquidity that the
market begins to trend in earnest.
There are a few valuable lessons here: Do not expect levels to hold cleanly. The ini-
tial breakout level failed to hold on the pullback, which triggered the short-term traders
to exit their positions. This, in turn, was actually the catalyst for the real move. Make
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c05 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:35 Printer: Hamilton Printing
Interfaces between Trends and Ranges 129
FIGURE 5.5 The Breakout Level Can Also Be Violated on the Pullback
sure your trading plan respects the realities of the market; any other plan is a recipe for
disaster. Figure 5.5 shows schematic examples of breakout trades violating the breakout
level on the pullback. Remember, this is not necessarily a sign of a failed breakout.
Patterns of Failed Breakouts
The preceding example is not meant to imply that every breakout trade works, nor
that short-term traders were necessarily stupid to exit their trades on a failed breakout.
Breakouts do fail, they fail frequently, and price movements following these failures can
be violent. One of the characteristics of market action is that markets will probe levels
for resting orders, seeking out levels where that will create trading volume. It is not that
difﬁcult to ﬁgure out where these orders might be placed, since traders use previous piv-
ots and visible support and resistance levels to deﬁne risk points for trades. Stop orders
tend to cluster just outside the day’s range, or at more or less predictable chart levels.
This may not be completely intuitive at ﬁrst, but here is one way this could work.
Imagine that you are a large player who would like to sell some of your inventory in
a futures market. You can see that the market has held a resistance level cleanly (let’s
say $80.00 for this example) on several tests, and it is reasonable to assume that many
traders are short against this visible level. If so, where will those traders probably put
their stops? There is no exact level, but we can assume that they will be clustered just
beyond the resistance, probably in the range from $80.01 to $80.20. What do you do the
next time the market trades up to $79.98? Remember, you actually are holding more of a
long position than you are comfortable with and you want to sell some, but you want to
sell as high as possible. Paradoxically, one good way to accomplish that goal might be to
actually buy more at $79.98, $79.99, and eventually to try to buy enough that your buying
pushes the market to $80.01. Even though you need to sell, the most effective way for
you to sell actually begins with you buying more.
If you are correct and shorts have their stop orders clustered there, those stops will
trigger and a rush of additional buying will come into the market. As soon as those stops
ﬁre off, you can stop your buying (which is a good thing, because now you are even
more long than you were before), and you will be more than happy to sell some of your
position to those stop orders. If this campaign is successful, you will be able to sell a
signiﬁcant portion of your position into the volatility resulting from those orders, and, if
you continue selling the rest of your inventory after the burst of stop orders is completed,
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c05 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:35 Printer: Hamilton Printing
130 MARKET STRUCTURE
you will most likely roll the market over into a strong sell-off. This is a highly simpliﬁed
model, but this type of action happens constantly in all markets and all time frames.
It is relatively easy for even moderately sized players to probe most markets, and thin
markets can be probed with very small size. There are plenty of inactive stocks in which
a few hundred shares could push prices through support and resistance at critical points,
so the capital and risk required to execute these campaigns is often much smaller than
you might expect. Failed breakouts like this are very common. Fortunately, they set up
some exceptional trading opportunities for the traders who know the patterns and who
are prepared to trade them.
Failure Test of Breakout Level Again, we encounter inconsistent terminology,
as different traders will call this trade by different names. What I call a failure test is
the simple case just described, where a market trades beyond a signiﬁcant level just far
enough to trigger stops without any signiﬁcant follow-through beyond the level. As a pure
price pattern, a failure test is a brief excursion beyond a level, followed by an immediate
reversal. “Immediate” in this case is dependent on time frame; intraday traders might be
looking for a reversal within seconds to minutes while very long-term traders might con-
sider any action reversed within a few weeks to be a failure test. As a working deﬁnition,
a rule of thumb might be that you want to see no more than two or three bars on your
time frame outside the breakout level and then strong momentum reversing the move.
This is one case where the close of the bar on your time frame can be very important.
The reason for this is that lower time frame price action is the key to judging the
probabilities around this trade. Conceptually, in the case of an upside breakout, buy-
ers are swept into the market by the breakout, and then they will sell their positions
if the breakout fails. These exits are usually accompanied by some degree of urgency,
ranging from mild to outright panic, and this order ﬂow creates downside momentum.
It is extremely unlikely to have this kind of action and not to have a close back below
the breakout level. Old-school chartists sometimes referred to this kind of action as a
“turkey shoot”—the turkey would poke its head above the level (perhaps a fencerow),
and would immediately have its head shot off. This actually describes the price action in
the best examples of these failures very well.
In Figure 5.6, compare the price action on the two or three bars following the two
points marked A to the same time period following B. In the ﬁrst two cases, once a bar
closes back on the other side of the breakout level, strong momentum steps in and we
see good price rejection from the breakout level. Remember, this price rejection is the
fundamental pattern of support or resistance holding; in this case the level is holding
after being broken, but the same concepts still apply. Even though the trade marked B
would have also been a successful fade of the breakout level, the action following B
is not typical of the action following the best trades. The market spent too much time
consolidating too closely to the level.
At the risk of confusing the issue slightly, it is important to consider that there is
another variation on this pattern in which the reversal bar actually does not show strong
reversal momentum. In this case, the close of that bar may occur very close to the level,
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c05 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:35 Printer: Hamilton Printing
Interfaces between Trends and Ranges 131
FIGURE 5.6 Points A Show Good Examples of Breakout Failures; B is More Typical of Continuation
Below the Level
either inside, outside, or perhaps right at the breakout level. However, lower time frame
price action shows a lack of conviction beyond the breakout level. For instance, in the
case of an upside breakout, bounces would be slow and reluctant on the lower time
frame, and the market might be seen to move down with much less resistance than
when it moves up; we would say that such a market “goes down a lot easier than it
goes up”—this is typical of a market that may be holding at higher levels without strong
underlying conviction. If this type of action is seen, sharp failure momentum back inside
the level is likely to emerge within the next several bars.
If this does not happen, then it is more likely that a simple pullback after the break-
out is underway, which, remember, does not need to hold outside the breakout level.
This is one of the most complex and subtle areas of chart analysis; there is much more
art than science involved in discerning the difference between these failed and success-
ful breakouts. In all cases, the distinguishing feature is the lack of conviction and mo-
mentum beyond the level, both of which can be read in price action and in the chart of
lower time frames. Even so, traders who focus on these trades must be prepared to be
wrong many times and perhaps to make multiple adjustments to positions as the market
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c05 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:35 Printer: Hamilton Printing
132 MARKET STRUCTURE
structure unfolds. These are areas of great uncertainty where the market is in a state of
ﬂux; extreme ﬂexibility is required to successfully navigate these waters.
While there have been constant reminders that nearly everything in technical anal-
ysis is time frame dependent, one important element is not: When signiﬁcant price ac-
tion is anticipated at a speciﬁc price level, it should occur at that level. Whether the
trader is watching tick charts or monthly charts, the presence or absence of action at a
level is an objective criterion that cannot be ignored. For instance, imagine that a long-
term investor, perhaps trading weekly or monthly bars, is expecting signiﬁcant action
as a market breaks to a multiyear high. If this does not happen, if the market simply
trades beyond that new high without any increase in activity, range, or volume, then this
is more suggestive of a failed breakout and the investor might choose to adjust her po-
sition within her risk management framework. You can think that she used lower time
frame price action to inform this decision, but, in reality, she simply did not see activity
that supported the idea of an imbalance at a speciﬁc price level.
Failed Pullback Following a Breakout The pullback following a breakout is po-
tentially the ﬁrst pullback in a new trend, so any of the common trend failure patterns
associated with other pullbacks apply to this pullback—with one small exception. If the
breakout level was truly an important level, there should have been a high level of ac-
tivity on the breakout and it is relatively uncommon to see breakout pullbacks fail by
going into ﬂat ranges. It is far more common to see these pullbacks fail with very strong
momentum out of the pattern or fail on a second test of the extreme reached after the
pullback. There are usually too many competing inﬂuences and too much order ﬂow for
the market to just go dead after a breakout, and this type of consolidation, when it does
happen, is usually indicative of a successful breakout. The fact that the market is able to
hold outside the level shows that there is real conviction behind the move, and can often
set up a sustained move in the direction of the breakout (see Figure 5.7).
For the trader looking to trade failed breakouts, the best pullback failures will see
a sharp reversal and failure out of the wrong side of the pullback formation, indicating
a complete failure of conviction outside the breakout level. For instance, assume that
FIGURE 5.7 Consolidation Outside the Prebreakout Range Is Usually Constructive
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c05 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:35 Printer: Hamilton Printing
Interfaces between Trends and Ranges 133
sellers are able to force a breakout below an important support level and hold the market
in a consolidation below that level. If they give up or fail, buyers will step in aggressively
and bid the market back above support, which will show on price charts as a few large
bars with good momentum breaking out of the top of the smaller consolidation. This
is not what we should have seen if the sellers had enough strength to push the market
lower. The presence of sharp momentum against the direction of the pullback is a reality
that all market participants will be forced to acknowledge, and can often lead to a sizable
move back below the breakout level.
Failure Pullback If sharp momentum emerges against the breakout, conﬁrming the
breakout failure, the ﬁrst pullback is probably tradable against the direction of the break-
out. As this pattern describes what comesafter the best failure patterns, it is not actually
useful in making decisions at the time of the breakout. However, if you ﬁnd yourself hold-
ing a position against this pattern as it develops, a large loss is probably looming around
the corner. If you have no position, this pattern may offer a reasonable spot for a scalp
or a short-term trade against the breakout, but it certainly should be a warning to get out
of Dodge if you are holding on to a losing breakout trade.
This may be slightly confusing, so see Figure 5.8 for clariﬁcation. Point A shows
a typical breakout, and at point B the market is consolidating in a standard breakout
pullback. At this point, you would be fully justiﬁed in holding a long position as long as
the lower time frame price action is judged to be favorable. However, C marks a classic
breakout pullback failure, as sharp downside momentum breaks out of the bottom of the
pullback. Now, think back to trading pullback trades—one of the strongest conditions
setting up good pullback trades is that they are preceded by good momentum. In this
case, the move following point C is on very strong downward momentum (against the
direction of the breakout), and the ensuing trend leg is longer and steeper than previous
downtrends. Shorting into the pullback at D is a good trade based just on that criterion,
but, in this case, it is further motivated by the failure of the breakout level at A. When
price turns down after this pullback at D, there may be some panic as the last trapped
longs scramble for the exits.
A
B
C
D
FIGURE 5.8 The Pullback Marked D Often Oﬀers an Excellent Trade Following a Breakout Pullback
Failure at C
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c05 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:35 Printer: Hamilton Printing
134 MARKET STRUCTURE
Consider what this pattern would look like on the higher time frame—it would prob-
ably simply show strong momentum away from the breakout level, or price rejection at
the breakout level. Even though there are many potential variations, the fundamental
price patterns are relatively simple and consistent.
TREND TO TRADING RANGE
Structurally, trends that terminate into a trading range will always do so through a failed
pullback, but this may not be extremely useful information in real time. To some extent,
this labeling system is mostly a semantic argument, saying little more than if a trend fails
to continue then it will go into a trading range, which, by deﬁnition, is a price area that
does not continue in either direction, up or down. The value comes from three factors:
understanding the patterns that can precede a failure of trend continuation, differentiat-
ing between those failures that are likely to lead to a dramatic reversal and those that
are more likely to transition into a sideways range, and ﬁnding speciﬁc risk management
points for trades that set up around these patterns.
We have already examined the patterns associated with failed pullbacks in some de-
tail in Chapter 3, and we will look at further reﬁnements in Chapter 6, but, in most cases,
failed pullbacks are preceded by some form of a momentum divergence. This momentum
divergence, by itself, is not sufﬁcient reason to take a position against the trend, but it is
an initial warning that the trend is losing some conviction. Once this condition appears,
countertrend positions are justiﬁed if supported by other factors, the most important of
which are lower time frame price action and the emerging market structure on the trad-
ing time frame. Other common conditions preceding failed pullbacks are extremely high
volatility, indicating possible climax or exhaustion, and/or the presence of multiple trend
legs in the same direction. After many directional pushes (more than three), it is likely
that the market needs further consolidation before continuing the trend; the probability
of pullback failure becomes higher with each subsequent trend leg.
For both with-trend and countertrend traders, the key moment to watch in pullbacks
is the inﬂection point where the pullback begins to move back in the direction of the
trend. It is important to be alert here and on guard for some sort of a failure as the mar-
ket attempts to begin a new trend leg. Trends always end with some form of a failed
pullback pattern, which takes one of three broad forms: First, pullbacks may fail by tran-
sitioning directly into a trading range, as in Figure 5.9. There is simply no move out of the
pullback as prices stabilize around a price level in the pullback itself. The initial range is
likely to be small, and may be expanded through a series of excursions above and below
the conﬁnes of the range, each of which could tempt unwitting traders into attempting
breakout trades at these spots. Buyers and sellers have reached equilibrium, and there is
no imbalance to propel to trend higher—there is also usually no reason to be trading in
these formations.
Pullbacks may also fail on a test of the pivot that deﬁnes the previous trend extreme.
There is not much difference between tests that are precisely at the level, those that
fall short, or those that slightly penetrate the old trend extreme, though the last case may
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c05 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:35 Printer: Hamilton Printing
Interfaces between Trends and Ranges 135
A
FIGURE 5.9 Trends May Terminate into Trading Ranges When Pullbacks Become Ranges
lead to sharper countertrend momentum due to trapped traders who entered on the false
breakout. Again, the common thread tying these scenarios together is that there is a lack
of conviction beyond the previous trend extreme, the market ﬁnds equilibrium as supply
and demand balance, and a period of sideways trading activity follows. Figure 5.10 shows
an example of a failure test at the previous high in an uptrend that ended the trend.
Last, pullbacks may fail via the failure pullback sequence: sharp countertrend mo-
mentum; a small pullback, which often sets up a good trade; and then another strong
counter (the original trend) thrust. In this case, the move out of the failure pullback often
exhausts itself somewhere close to the measured move objective (MMO), thus deﬁning
the initial extreme of the new trading range. Figure 5.11 shows a road map for this type
of action. The swing marked A is the conﬁrmation that the trend had decisively ended, at
least for the time being.
The common pattern tying all of these transitions from trend to trading range is a
failed pullback, and this point is important: trends fail when pullbacks fail. This is why
it is so critical for all technical traders, whether they trade with the trend, countertrend,
in ranges, or on breakouts of those ranges, to be familiar with the patterns associated
with pullbacks and their failure. The point of a trading methodology is not to predict
the future, but to understand the forces at work in the market at any time, their rela-
tive balance, and the most likely resolution of emerging price structures. When some-
thing changes, and this happens frequently, a good trading methodology will embrace
A
FIGURE 5.10 A Failure Test at the Previous Pivot Extreme May Be a Catalyst for the Market to
Transition to a Trading Range
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c05 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:35 Printer: Hamilton Printing
136 MARKET STRUCTURE
A
FIGURE 5.11 Sharp Countertrend Momentum May Exhaust into a Trading Range
this change and make adjustments to trades. Exactly how you choose to implement this
will depend on your personality and your chosen methodology, but the key is that you un-
derstand the ebb and ﬂow of market dynamics. Managing trades in this ﬂuid environment
is the next challenge to consider.
Trade Management Issues
Beginning traders assume that catching the end of a trend is a proﬁtable trade because
the market will reverse into a trend in the opposite direction. This is the classic “buy the
low or sell the high,” which, though emotionally gratifying when it works out, can be very
challenging to execute. First, this outcome is fairly rare; many trends end by transition-
ing into trading ranges. As the market chops sideways in the ensuing range, there are no
outsized proﬁts, and aggressive traders may even ﬁnd themselves taking multiple small
losses as they continue to try to position for the major trend change that never comes. In
addition, most of these ranges, especially if they are able to hold and consolidate some-
where in the neighborhood of the previous trend extreme, are more likely to be trend
continuation than reversal patterns on the higher time frame. It certainly is possible to
trade these trend terminations into trading ranges proﬁtably, but doing so demands lower
expectations; sometimes small trades within the range may be all the market offers.
Once a position has been established in a suspected trend termination, the ﬁrst
thing to look for is conﬁrmation that the trend has indeed terminated. Usually, this is not
difﬁcult: if an uptrend terminates, the market will stop going up, and vice versa for a
downtrend. However, this somewhat tongue-in-cheek observation ignores the cases
where the trend extreme is retested or perhaps even slightly exceeded in the developing
trading range. It is important to monitor price action in order to separate trend continu-
ation from these brief tests of trading ranges; in general, failure patterns such as springs
and upthrusts mark the tests in successful trend terminations. The presence of strong
momentum beyond the previous trend extreme is an undeniable sign that the trend is
continuing.
Once the trend termination has been successfully identiﬁed, it is important to take
higher time frame market structure into consideration. The trading time frame trading
range will eventually terminate, but is an exit from one direction more likely than the
other? On the trading time frame and lower time frames, the range will probably be
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c05 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:35 Printer: Hamilton Printing
Interfaces between Trends and Ranges 137
volatile, noisy, and more or less random—extremely difﬁcult to read. On a higher time
frame, structures like this usually resolve into either continuation or reversal patterns in
that higher time frame trend, so it is sometimes possible to tilt the odds in favor of one
resolution or the other. For instance, imagine that a trading time frame trend terminates
into a trading range, the higher time frame has shown multiple trend legs in the same
direction, and the higher time frame is now overextended and is showing a momentum
divergence. These higher time frame factors would suggest that the trading time frame
range is more likely to be a reversal pattern, and this has obvious implications for how a
trade in should be managed.
However, a trend on the trading time frame may terminate into a range that is a
simple with-trend consolidation on the higher time frame. Pressing trades against that
higher time frame trend is usually a bad idea, as that trend is very likely to reassert itself
and at least make an attempt at another trend leg. A very common pattern here is to
see the trading time frame range create a complex, two-legged pullback on the higher
time frame. For instance, if the higher time frame is in an uptrend and the trading time
frame rolls over into a range that holds near the extreme of that trend, shorting below
the bottom of such a range is exactly thewrong trade on the higher time frame. The only
reasonable trade is buying the bottom of the complex pullback, whether establishing
longs or covering countertrend shorts. If a successful short in this range is not covered
at the lows in an attempt to allow for more market volatility in a potential breakdown,
this is ﬁne, but once the market turns higher and the higher time frame trend seems to be
regaining control, any remaining proﬁts must be protected aggressively. There is nothing
worse than correctly identifying a trend termination, correctly executing countertrend
trades at exactly the right time, watching them grow to nice proﬁts, and then aggressively
adding to those positions at the point you should be taking proﬁts. Errors like this can
make the difference between a successful and a failed trading career.
TREND TO OPPOSITE TREND (TREND REVERSAL)
The most likely outcome following a trend termination is a trading range, but there is an-
other possibility: a dramatic transition from a trend in one direction to a trend in the other
direction without an intervening range. The reason this scenario is uncommon is that an
established trend is a powerful force, and it usually takes a lot of work, a lot of time, and
a lot of contrary pressure to end that trend. Without these factors and the accompanying
price action, the best bet at any point is for trend continuation. Having said that, there are
two speciﬁc scenarios in which a sudden reversal is somewhat more likely than usual:
following a parabolic climax or on a “last gasp” test of a previous trend extreme.
Parabolic Blow-Off into Climax
Trends end in one of two ways. The most common is for the trend to simply run out of
steam and roll over, as momentum divergences develop against the trend and the market
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c05 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:35 Printer: Hamilton Printing
138 MARKET STRUCTURE
eventually ﬁnds balance at a new price level. This type of trend ending is more likely
to be followed by an extended trading range, which itself may be a consolidation for
another leg in the direction of the original trend. The other classic trend-ending pattern
occurs when a trend ends in a parabolic range expansion that culminates in a buying (or
selling) climax. These moves are dramatic and powerful, often exceeding any reasonable
limits that could have been imagined. They seem to be the ultimate expression of a strong
trend, but they carry within themselves the seeds of a dramatic trend reversal.
In the case of a buying climax, every buyer who wants to buy does so into the climax,
spurred by the powerful emotions that accompany such a move. When the buying stops
and the market pauses for even a moment (again, dependent on the time frame), it be-
comes obvious that the last willing buyer just bought and there is no one left to buy. The
market then collapses into that vacuum; sharp countertrend momentum emerges that
usually extends into multiple trend legs. This pattern is not common, but it is very pow-
erful. Trapped traders can drive markets much farther, much faster than anyone would
have expected, and this problem is magniﬁed by the already elevated volatility levels
around these spots in the market.
Every trend that eventually ends in a parabolic expansion begins life as a normal
trend. It goes through the same normal stages of evolution as any other trend, and it is
usually impossible to identify good candidates for parabolic expansion early in the life
cycle of the trend. (If it were possible, then it would be worthwhile to do nothing other
than to trade these trends, which might offer 10 or 20 times the proﬁt potential of any
normal scenario.) Typically, trends that end this way develop two characteristics: they
last a long time and they accelerate into a steeper trend before the actual expansion. This
acceleration can either be a series of ever-steeping trend legs or occur at a single inﬂec-
tion, as in Figure 5.12. In this example, Wheat futures in mid-1996, the market lifted above
a recent trend channel at point A and began a new, steeper trend. At B, it engaged a mul-
tiyear trend channel and traded cleanly through it as momentum continued to increase.
At C, it showed many bars trading completely outside the Keltner channels (multiplefree
bars), a most unusual event. This type of price action is unsustainable, and the market
collapsed back into the vacuum at D. The price extreme reached in this parabolic move
was a high-water mark that would remain unchallenged for more than a decade; it is com-
mon for the extreme points marked by these parabolic moves to represent long-lasting
and signiﬁcant elements of market structure.
Psychologically, one of the keys to this type of action is the acceleration of the nor-
mal trend preceding the parabolic expansion. It is unusual to see a trend that is simply
trading with a normal trending pattern break into this kind of expansion without ﬁrst
having an inﬂection or a series of accelerating trend legs. In the section on trend lines in
Chapter 3, we looked at how a set of steeper trend lines was needed to contain a trend
that increases in strength; seeing many of these steeper, short trend lines is one warning
that a market could be primed for a blow-off. If you are ever on the wrong side of one
of these moves, remember than they can go much further than anyone would ever think
possible—there is great danger of a career-ending loss at these points. This should be a
hard-and-fast trading rule: if you are ever on the wrong side of a parabolic expansion,
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c05 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:35 Printer: Hamilton Printing
Interfaces between Trends and Ranges 139
FIGURE 5.12 Wheat Futures in Mid-1996 Had a Parabolic Expansion and Subsequent Reversal
into a Downtrend
limit risk with iron discipline. Do not hold on hoping the market will come back, and do
not add to your position hoping to average out of your loss. At some point the market
will reverse, but you may have been margin called and taken out of business long before
that happens.
Like most things in technical analysis, we see similar patterns on all time frames—
intraday, daily, and all the way out to monthly and beyond, but the pattern varies in
signiﬁcance depending on the time frame. A parabolic exhaustion on a 1-minute chart
might mark a high that lasts for several hours, whereas the corresponding pattern on a
daily chart could set a high that would hold for many years. It is also fairly common to
see lower time frame moves that are counter to a higher time frame exhaust themselves
in a small climax into ideal entry points on the higher time frame. For instance, if you are
watching a potential complex pullback in an uptrend on the daily chart, watch intraday
time frames carefully as the market comes near the measured move objective for the
complex pullback (see Figure 5.13). If you see a selling climax and a parabolic exhaustion
on the intraday time frame, entering long in the reversal is an excellent trade because it
plays to both the intraday selling climax and the market structure of the higher time
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c05 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:35 Printer: Hamilton Printing
140 MARKET STRUCTURE
FIGURE 5.13 Watch for Parabolic Expansion and Exhaustion into Ideal Higher Time Frame
Entry Points
frame. Though slightly more complex because it depends on the interaction of two time
frames, this is actually one of the best and most reliable trend reversal setups: positioning
with a higher time frame pattern against a parabolic exhaustion on a lower time frame.
Position sizing and risk points may be different depending on whether you want to trade
it as a stand-alone reversal on the shorter time frame or want to focus on the entry on the
higher time frame pattern, but this is a powerful pattern that should be in every technical
trader’s arsenal.
Expectations Following Parabolic Exhaustion Once the entry in the parabolic
expansion has been identiﬁed, it is important to start considering reasonable expecta-
tions for the trade. There is, of course, the possibility that the exhaustion will be ab-
sorbed and the market will continue in the direction of the original trend. In the case of
large-scale exhaustions, this is very unlikely as they tend to cause structural shifts in the
psychology of market participants, but there are also many smaller climaxes, especially
on shorter time frames, that do often result in continuation after further consolidation.
One classic example is a small climax that caps a trend, resulting in a two-legged com-
plex consolidation. After this structure, the extreme condition created by the climax may
be worked off, and it is quite likely the market can continue the original trend. Again, this
is extremely unusual after larger climaxes as in Figure 5.12, but, even then, it is possible.
More common is the sequence of a sharp countertrend move, consolidation, and
then another sharp break in the direction of the countertrend move. This technically
completes a two-legged complex consolidation, but the distinguishing factor is that the
countertrend momentum is much sharper than in a standard pullback. The easy trade
is usually playing for this second countertrend leg, but this is also the point where the
market may extend into a new trend. The key will be judging the bounces that are in
the direction of the original (preclimax) trend. If they are reluctant and are smaller, ide-
ally both in price and in time, than the legs in the direction of the new trend, there is a
good chance that a trend change has taken place. It is also not unusual to see a market
spend an extended period of time consolidating before making another move.
Last, another pattern to be aware of is the triangle consolidation that is set up by
two back-to-back impulse moves in opposite directions. If a market makes a sharp move,
followed by an almost equally sharp move in the opposite direction, there is a very high
probability of an extended consolidation. One of the most common areas to ﬁnd this
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c05 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:35 Printer: Hamilton Printing
Interfaces between Trends and Ranges 141
A
B
FIGURE 5.14 Two Sharp Moves in Opposite Directions Usually Lead to a Triangle
formation is following these parabolic climaxes. If the ﬁrst, very strong countertrend
move is immediately reversed by another movement in the direction of the original trend,
there is a good chance of a protracted consolidation following. For most traders, these
are not proﬁtable areas in which to tie up mental or ﬁnancial capital. Learn to read this
pattern, pictured in Figure 5.14, as a warning sign, and simply avoid trading in these areas.
Last Gasp
There is a trading rule that says, only half in jest, that the market will always do whatever
will hurt the greatest number of traders. Part of this is subjective—we all use humor to
deal with losses at times—but there also is a reality here, driven by that core tendency
of markets to seek volume and activity. After an extended run-up followed by a well-
recognized topping formation (e.g., head and shoulders or double top), there will likely
be many traders who short in anticipation of a trend reversal with stops just beyond
the recent highs. In addition, there will be traders who think they are smarter than the
market, and who will be playing for trend continuation at these points. They too will
buy, either on stops or with contingent orders when the market violates the previous
high. Regardless of the reason behind the buying, there is almost always a lot of latent
buying pressure waiting just beyond the previous highs.
The moment of truth comes as soon as the market probes that area, stops are elected,
and the initial buying dries up. Are there larger buyers there, waiting to bid the market
higher with commitment, or was the whole move a fake-out? If the latter, this will be
obvious as prices fall back below the previous highs and many of the shorts who were
stopped out will reestablish (selling pressure). Trapped longs will eventually have to sell
as well, whether they were holding established positions or entered on the breakout.
The result of all of this selling pressure is that the market ﬁnally reverses and downside
momentum develops as selling leads to more selling.
This is a special case of a failure test at the highs of an old trend, and, in the right
context, is an extremely reliable trend termination pattern. The actual “last gasp” pattern
is nothing more than a Wyckoff upthrust, but the key is that it is preceded by sufﬁcient
consolidation to set up the potential for another trend leg up; the pattern draws its power
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c05 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:35 Printer: Hamilton Printing
142 MARKET STRUCTURE
FIGURE 5.15 Two Upthrusts in Disney Cap an Uptrend
from the failure of that potential. (It is exactly reversed for a downtrend—i.e., a spring
after a long-enough consolidation that the market appeared to be primed to break down.)
Traders who recognize this pattern early can establish short positions at advantageous
prices or at least can aggressively limit damage on long positions. Figure 5.15 shows a
fairly brutal example in Walt Disney Company (NYSE: DIS): after a gap up and a short
consolidation, the stock put in an upthrust at the highs. After consolidating again for
nearly a quarter, another upthrust back above the level decisively ended any hopes for
another easy trend leg up and the market gapped open lower the next day.
Trend Change Without Warning
Sometimes the absence of a pattern is a pattern in itself. Trends are powerful forces
in markets, and it is very rare to see one stop and turn with no warning. Strong trends
usually require time and substantial price action to reverse, so with-trend traders are
usually rewarded for being somewhat stubborn in their exits. With a winning trend trade,
it often pays to give it a little more room, or even to add to the position as it ﬂuctuates
against the trend. This is normal, but there are cases in which a market makes a stunning
reversal into a trend in the opposite direction without any warning.
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c05 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:35 Printer: Hamilton Printing
Interfaces between Trends and Ranges 143
This is very rare, but that is precisely why it deserves attention. Trends do not nor-
mally stop and turn on a dime. When they do, it is usually driven by some new piece of
information or a major catalyst. Whether it is company-speciﬁc news, a crop report, or
a large-scale economic report, fresh information causes market participants to immedi-
ately and dramatically reassess their commitment to the market. As traders scramble to
adjust positions in the new environment of heightened uncertainty, volatility increases
and a feedback loop develops in which large price movements trigger further price move-
ments. The large price movements eventually provoke a reaction from traders who would
not have reacted to the news alone as they are forced to make a decision about existing
positions or potential entries. Markets can make breathtaking moves under these condi-
tions, so be on guard for these large-scale reversals with no warning.
Change of Character
In all of these cases of a trend reversing into the opposite trend, the common ground is
that the market displays a distinct change of character. The pattern of the established
trend is ﬁrst broken, and then a new movement emerges that shows strong momentum
counter to the established trend. Traders who are actually watching the price bars
develop will see that price is moving differently; this is a form of tape reading. Traders
who are only looking at static price bars, for instance, examining charts at the end of the
day, will still be able to infer price action to some extent by carefully examining lower
time frames.
Though this is a very important point, do not overcomplicate it. Working with the
traders I have trained, I sometimes refer to a trading skill I (half) jokingly call “Hey, that’s
different.” Sometimes it really is that simple—sometimes it is enough to notice a break
in the established pattern. Intuition is useful here, as it can often alert the trader that
something has changed, even if it is stubbornly nebulous at ﬁrst. Once you know that the
pattern has been broken, you can dig deeper and attempt to better quantify the break.
For instance, if a market has been uptrending for quite a while, a change of character
could be as simple as a downswing that is bigger than the preceding upswing. If this is
the ﬁrst time this has happened in many swings, it is time to carefully monitor the market
over the next few swings to see if something crucial has changed. Conﬁrmation can come
from a number of other factors, indicators, or market relationships, but be open to a hint
from your intuition that the pattern has somehow shifted.
TREND TO SAME TREND
(FAILURE OF TREND REVERSAL)
A successful trend reversal is a trend failure: the trend fails to continue. A failed trend
reversal, then, could be described as a failed failure pattern. This may seem like an un-
necessary complication; it is certainly important to keep our labeling system as clean
and simple as possible, but there is a distinction between simple trend continuations
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c05 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:35 Printer: Hamilton Printing
144 MARKET STRUCTURE
and failed trend reversals. In both cases, prices continue to move in the direction of the
trend, but the difference is that, in a failed trend reversal, traders may have been encour-
aged to enter countertrend positions in anticipation of the trend change. An example of
this might be if a well-watched index or commodity puts in a large-scale head and shoul-
ders pattern. The media will be discussing the obvious pattern for weeks, some large
traders and funds will establish countertrend positions, and many small traders will join
the party. If this trend does not reverse, if the trend reversal fails, these traders will be
forced to adjust their positions, and their activity will add fuel to the ﬁre as the original
trend continues on. Another much more common example is the complex pullback. The
second countertrend leg of this pullback will be viewed by some market participants as a
legitimate trend reversal. When it becomes obvious they are wrong, their efforts to adjust
their positions add momentum to the other side.
It is probably not necessary to study these failed trend reversals in detail, because, at
some level, they are just a type of trend continuation. Realize that they derive their power
from potentially trapped traders who were aggressively anticipating trend reversal (see
Figure 5.16). Anytime too many people are leaning in the same direction, the market is
vulnerable to an outsized move in the opposite direction.
FIGURE 5.16 Failed Breakdown (Arrow) Leads to a Retest of Highs with the Possibility of Contin-
uation into Another Trend Leg
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c05 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:35 Printer: Hamilton Printing
Interfaces between Trends and Ranges 145
SUMMARY
Part One of this book laid a solid foundation for the need to have a veriﬁable edge in the
market. Part Two has taken the basic forces driving price movements—mean reversion
and range expansion—and has begun to put them in the context of actual, practical mar-
ket structure. All of this has still been more or less theoretical, with no attempt being
made to delineate precise entry and exit points in patterns. Before moving on to examine
actual trading patterns, this is a good time to review what we have learned so far, and to
put it all in context.
First Principles
r Markets are highly random and are very, very close to being efﬁcient.
r It is impossible to make money trading without an edge.
r Every edge we have is driven by an imbalance of buying and selling pressure.
r The job of traders is to identify those points of imbalance and to restrict their activi-
ties in the markets to those times.
r There are two competing forces at work in the market: mean reversion and range ex-
pansion. These two forces express themselves in the market through the alternation
of trends and trading ranges.
The Four Trades
r Traders usually view market action through charts, which are useful tools, but are
only tools.
r Trades broadly fall into with-trend and countertrend trades. These two categories
require signiﬁcantly different mind-sets and approaches to trade management.
r There are only four technical trades. Some trades are blends of more than one trade,
or an application of one trade to a structure in another time frame, but these are just
reﬁnements. At their root, all technical trades fall into one of these categories:
r Trend continuation.
r Trend termination.
r Support and resistance holding.
r Support and resistance failing.
r Each of these trades is more appropriate at one phase of the market cycle than an-
other. If you apply the wrong trade to current market conditions, you will lose.
Market Structure and Price Action
r Market structure refers to the pattern of relative highs and lows and the momentum
behind the moves that created that pattern. Market structure is a more or less static
element.
r Price action refers to the actual movements of price within market structure. Price
action is dynamic and ephemeral and must sometimes be inferred from market
structure.
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c05 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:35 Printer: Hamilton Printing
146 MARKET STRUCTURE
r There are three critical areas of market structure to consider: trends, trading ranges,
and the interfaces between the two.
Trends and Retracements
r Trends move in a series of with-trend impulse moves separated by retracements.
r Retracements often contain lower time frame trends that run counter to the trading
time frame trend.
r Trends that run counter to the higher time frame trends tend to reverse.
r Complex consolidations in trends are a reﬂection of the lower time frame trend struc-
ture and are common.
Trend Terminations into Trading Ranges or Reversals
r Trend terminations are usually set up by momentum divergences, and are conﬁrmed
by market structure. Do not attempt trend termination trades without clear evidence
of a change of character.
r Trends may terminate either into trading ranges or into trend reversals.
r Trends end in one of two ways: by rolling over as the trend loses momentum, or in
parabolic climaxes.
Trading Ranges
r Trading ranges are deﬁned by support and resistance zones, which may or may not
be clean, exact levels.
r Classic accumulation/distribution patterns are recognizable at the extremes of
ranges.
r Violation of support and resistance does not necessarily invalidate the trading range.
It is possible that the range has simply expanded or moved to a new level.
r Trading ranges serve a structural function in the higher time frame; higher time frame
market structure can give a bias to the direction of the break from a trading range.
In the absence of contradictory information, assume that any trading range is a con-
tinuation pattern.
Breakouts
r Breakouts from trading ranges are volatile and are driven by disagreement over
price.
r The ﬁrst pullback after a breakout is critical for assessing the strength of the nascent
trend.
r Breakout failures are far more common than successful breakouts.
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c06 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:38 Printer: Hamilton Printing
PART III
Trading Strategies
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c06 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:38 Printer: Hamilton Printing
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c06 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:38 Printer: Hamilton Printing
CHAPTER 6
Practical Trading
Templates
Do not [just blindly] repeat the tactics which have gained you one
victory, but let your methods be regulated by the inﬁnite variety of
circumstances.
—Sun Tzu, The Art of War (ca. 210 CE)
T
his chapter presents eight speciﬁc trading patterns that should be seen as guide-
lines for actual trades. They are also concrete expressions of quantiﬁable, di-
rectional edges in the market; they highlight points in market structure around
which there are sometimes imbalances of buying and selling pressure that can set up
proﬁtable trading opportunities. These are not a simple set of patterns to be memorized,
found in the market, and then traded proﬁtably. We do not trade these patterns; we trade
the underlying buying and selling pressure that sometimes creates these patterns. This is
an important and subtle distinction that sets my approach apart from that of many other
traders. There are reliable, repeatable patterns in the markets, but these patterns are
useful only inasmuch as they reveal the buying and selling pressure that shapes evolv-
ing market structure. The true value in these patterns is that they deﬁne precise points
for your entries and exits and give you tools to manage the risk in each trade, but en-
during success will follow only if these are part of a larger analytical framework that
encompasses a complete understanding of market structure, price action, and the psy-
chological dynamics that create them.
These patterns are introduced in order of complexity: Failure tests, though they are
aggressive countertrend trades, are clearly deﬁned with relatively few subjective ele-
ments. The next three patterns are variations ofpullbacks; the ﬁrst two are distinguished
by whether they enter with or against the direction of the short-term trend. The last pull-
back pattern is the complex pullback, which is often the source of consistent losses for
ill-prepared trend traders. The ﬁfth pattern in this chapter is the Anti, which offers a
rigidly disciplined entry at a potential trend change. Last, three variations of breakout
trades bring up the rear and close out the chapter.
149
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c06 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:38 Printer: Hamilton Printing
150 TRADING STRATEGIES
FAILURE TEST
Trade Type
Support/resistance holding or trend termination.
Concept Markets probe for stop orders and activity beyond signiﬁcant price levels.
Many times, there is no real conviction behind these moves, and the moves fail and re-
verse quickly once the stop orders are triggered. Entering after such a move allows for
excellent reward/risk potential with a clearly deﬁned risk point.
Setup The market must be overextended or in some way primed for reversal. The best
examples of this trade occur in mature, extended trends, and will usually be accompa-
nied by momentum divergence on the trading time frame. Another common variation
occurs in an extended consolidation just under resistance. This type of consolidation
would normally have a high expectation of producing another trend leg above that resis-
tance, so many traders are monitoring the area and will enter on a potential breakout.
If this breakout occurs and fails, there will be many trapped traders, which can add mo-
mentum to a downside trade off that level.
Trigger For a short entry, the market trades above a clearly deﬁned resistance area,
but immediately reverses on the same or the following bar and closes back under the re-
sistance. There can be signiﬁcant volatility, volume, and activity on the breakout, but
there should be no real conviction beyond the level. Enter short on the close of the
bar that closes back below resistance. The buy setup is exactly symmetrical. Figure 6.1
shows examples of long and short failure test entries in Fossil, Inc. (Nasdaq: FOSL).
Point A marks a brief probe below support, but the same day immediately closed back
above the support level. At B, the stock attempted to break to new highs, but there was
not enough buying pressure to hold it above the resistance level and it failed on the
same day. A long entry would have been justiﬁed on the close of A, and a short on the
close of B.
Figure 6.2 shows another classic example of this trade, in the EURUSD. In the bar
preceding A, all systems seemed to be “go” for a continued trend run above the previous
highs, and the market actually closed solidly above the resistance level. However, at A
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c06 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:38 Printer: Hamilton Printing
Practical Trading Templates 151
FIGURE 6.1 Two Failure Test Entries in FOSL
the market failed dramatically, and the subsequent sharp selling shows that this point did
in fact mark a major structural inﬂection in this currency.
Stop The stop for this trade is clearly deﬁned: a hard stop must be entered just beyond
the extreme of the test beyond the level. For instance, the stops on the two trades in
Figure 6.1 would have been placed below the low of the bar marked A and above the
high of B. The EURUSD trade in Figure 6.2 is only slightly more complicated; the failure
occurred on the close of the day marked A, but the previous day set the high-water mark
for the excursion above resistance. Therefore, you would have had to place the stop
above the high of the bar preceding the entry bar. In all cases, the stop goes just outside
the most extreme test beyond the triggering support or resistance level.
Because this is an aggressive countertrend trade, it is important to not add to losing
trades. Respect the stop level without question. In addition, there is signiﬁcant gap risk
with trades held overnight. On losing trades, there is sometimes enough pent-up pressure
to cause gap opens beyond the stop, so it may make sense to trade these on smaller size
and risk compared to other setups.
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c06 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:38 Printer: Hamilton Printing
152 TRADING STRATEGIES
FIGURE 6.2 A Failure Test Short in the EURUSD
Proﬁt Target Most traders ﬁnd best success with a plan that allows for taking partial
proﬁts as the market makes them available. For instance, one plan would be to take
proﬁt on the ﬁrst part when the proﬁt equals the initial risk on the trade. The proﬁt target
on the second portion is discretionary, but consider the possibility of a longer, complex
correction that leads to continuation of the original trend. Some of these trades will
turn into dramatic trend reversals, but this should not be your baseline expectation. In
general, consolidation near the level, particularly if the ﬁrst proﬁt target is not reached, is
a bad sign. For instance, if you enter short on B in Figure 6.1 and the market spends two
to three days trading above 105, this is most likely a precursor of a losing trade. Reduce
exposure or close out these trades if they do not work quickly in your favor.
Failure Patterns While it is certainly important to know what the pattern should
look like if it’s working, from a pedagogical standpoint it probably makes more sense to
focus energy and attention on what should not happen. If these early signs of failure can
be recognized, it is often possible to reduce position sizes and to reduce the size of the
ultimate loss. In addition, careful study of the typical patterns associated with failure can
lead to a deeper understanding of the dynamics behind the trade. The key to most failure
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c06 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:38 Printer: Hamilton Printing
Practical Trading Templates 153
patterns is to understand what should not happen if the trade is good—to look for price
action and emerging market structure that contradict the reasons for being in the trade.
In this case, what we do not want to see after trade entry is simple: the market should
not be able to consolidate near the level, nor should it exceed the stop-loss point. Consol-
idation near the level is more consistent with an impending breakout and continuation of
the existing trend. If the failure test trade is successful, price should move sharply away
from the level, and the trade should be immediately proﬁtable (within one to three bars
on the trading time frame). This is another expression of the classic price rejection, a
further conﬁrmation of the validity of the failure beyond the level.
One last point to consider is that some of these trades will hit the stop point and,
on the same or the next bar following the stop-out bar, will once again fall back inside
the level. Though it can be psychologically challenging to reenter immediately after a
loss, this second trade, taken on the second failure, is also an excellent entry. This is
another reason for trading both entries on smaller risk—this second entry sets up often
enough (and is virtually obligatory) that the sum of the risk on both trades should not be
signiﬁcantly larger than the maximum risk taken on other types of trades.
Comments This is the simplest and most clearly deﬁned of all the patterns in this
chapter. There is no subjectivity in stop location and little subjectivity in managing los-
ing trades—if the market makes a new extreme, then you are wrong and must exit the
trade. There are only two potential complications with this trade. The ﬁrst is the reentry
following a stop-out, which is usually a simple failure on the higher time frame. Traders
must be aware of this possibility and must plan for this in their risk management and
position sizing.
The second potential issue deals with managing winning trades; it is important to
consider the trade-off between high probability of a smaller proﬁt and the lesser prob-
ability of a large payout. Some percentage of these trades will evolve into major trend
reversals; however gratifying that is, it is not the most common outcome and should
not be your expectation when trading this pattern. Many winning trades will give the
trader the opportunity to take some proﬁts around the ﬁrst proﬁt target, at which point
the market begins consolidating or turns around and hits the stop. It is important to
strike a balance between taking sufﬁcient early proﬁts that the entire set of trades will
be proﬁtable, while maintaining enough exposure that the much less common home
runs make a signiﬁcant contribution to the bottom line. There is no easy answer to this,
and the choice will depend on a large degree on the personality and inclination of the
individual trader.
The failure test pattern is the classic Wyckoﬀ spring and upthrust; the only adaptation is
the addition of a ﬁrm stop level and a concrete trading plan. The basis of this pattern was
ﬁrst written about nearly 100 years ago, and it works just as well today. More recently,
Victor Sperandeo (1993) has written about this pattern, which he calls the “2B” trade. His
books include many valuable ideas and perspectives on this pattern and other trading-
related issues.
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c06 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:38 Printer: Hamilton Printing
154 TRADING STRATEGIES
PULLBACK, BUYING SUPPORT OR
SHORTING RESISTANCE
Trade Type
Trend continuation.
Concept Pullbacks are probably the most important structural feature of trends. For
many traders, pullbacks are the quintessential with-trend trade, using the countertrend
pullback to position in the larger trend at an advantageous price. The broad termpullback
encompasses a large number of speciﬁc patterns: ﬂags, pennants, wedges, continuation
triangles, and many others, but the exact shape of the pattern is not that important. In
reality, these are all functionally the same—they are continuation patterns in trends. It
is not necessary, nor is it constructive, to have separate trading plans for each of these
patterns. Understand what the pattern is and what it does, and trade it accordingly.
Setup The most important condition for this trade is that the market must be trending.
Though it is not always possible to separate trending from nontrending environments
with precision, many losing trades are the result of attempting pullbacks in nontrending
environments. Objective tools to identify trends have been discussed in Chapter 3, but
the problem can be reduced to whether the setup leg preceding the pullback shows good
momentum—it must be a move that should see continuation after consolidation.
At the risk of oversimplifying, if the market is in an established trend, the preceding
setup leg should be at least as strong as previous trend legs in the same direction. In
other words, it should not break the pattern of the trend and should not show momentum
divergence. Pullback trades are also possible on trend changes or following breakouts of
trading ranges, though this more properly falls under the Anti trade category. In these
cases, there will be no established trend, but the setup leg should show a distinct change
of character compared to the preceding environment. Whether in an established trend
or at the beginning of a new potential trend, the same condition applies: the setup leg
should suggest momentum in the market that must be resolved through an attempted
third leg (impulse-retracement-impulse) continuation.
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c06 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:38 Printer: Hamilton Printing
Practical Trading Templates 155
One useful way to approach trend trades is to consider conditions that would contra-
dict this trade, which are the standard preconditions for countertrend trades. In the ab-
sence of any of these (e.g., momentum divergence, overextension on higher time frames,
etc.), with-trend trades are fully justiﬁed.
Different markets have different characters with respect to the integrity, length, and
strength of trends—some markets trend better than others. For instance, it is somewhat
unusual for most intraday index products to have trends that extend more than three
legs, but individual equities, especially if they have had unusual news that day, may trend
much further. Some commodities, such as meat products, do not tend to trend well, but
petroleum products and grains are capable of signiﬁcant, extended trends with many
clean trend legs. On longer time frames, interest rate products, and currency rates of-
ten show multiyear trends. In general, there is an old rule of thumb that says that larger
markets (in terms of nominal value) trend better; though this is difﬁcult to prove quan-
titatively, it is a useful guideline to keep in mind. Certainly, extraordinary conditions do
occur where a market makes a move that is out of all proportion to historical precedents.
Your trading plan should allow you to participate in those moves with at least partial po-
sitions, but these unusual moves should not be the main focus of your plan.
Once the main prerequisites of a trending market with no contradictory conditions
are satisﬁed, we turn to the geometry of the pullback pattern itself. Good pullbacks al-
most always show reduced activity (smaller ranges for individual bars) and the absence
of strong countertrend momentum. This is why traditional technical analysis suggests
that volume should be lighter in pullbacks—they are zeroing in on the (valid) fact that
trading activity should be less on the pullbacks. In many cases, pullbackswill have lighter
volume, but this is not the distinguishing feature. In all cases the best pullbacks have
reduced activity, which is visible on the lower time frame, in price action, and in the
lack of strong countertrend momentum on the trading time frame—but necessarily lower
volume per se.
Last, it also makes sense to be responsive to developing market structure, even after
the trade is initiated. A pullback may emerge at a spot where the trade was justiﬁed, but
developing price action may suggest that the trend is losing integrity. If this happens, it
is not necessary to hold the trade to the original stop-loss level. It is often advisable to
scratch the trade, exiting for a small win or loss, and to wait for better opportunities. A
good trading plan will allow ﬂexibility and will encourage the trader to be responsive to
developing market conditions.
Trigger The actual entry for this trade is buying against the support level near the
bottom or selling short against the resistance near the top of the pullback. There is an
important trade management issue to consider, as Figure 6.3 shows: support and resis-
tance levels usually slope in these patterns. One of the advantages of buying against sup-
port is that, usually, your risk is fairly clearly deﬁned, but, in the case of buying into
pullbacks, price can decline (or rally, in a pullback against a downtrend) much further
than expected while the pattern remains valid. It can be difﬁcult to deﬁne the risk on a
position entered against a sloping support or resistance level, but it does not make sense
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c06 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:38 Printer: Hamilton Printing
156 TRADING STRATEGIES
FIGURE 6.3 Support in a Pullback Is Usually Sloping, Not Flat
to exit a trade that is still within the sloping level. Having the level itself is not enough; it
is also important to have a clear trigger against that level to support the actual entry.
There are two ideal triggers. In the ﬁrst, the market has deﬁned a clean pullback.
Sometimes it is possible to draw a trendline on both sides of the pullback, but, barring
that, a parallel trend channel (see Chapter 3) can be used. The entry trigger is a fail-
ure of this trend line or channel, followed by an immediate reversal; that is, the line is
penetrated, but prices recover back above the trend line within a few bars. Conceptually,
what has happened is that traders buying into the pullback against the support level have
been washed out of the market by the drop below that support. Note that this will often
coincide with a lower time frame climax, though this is usually clear from the trading
time frame and it is not necessary to explicitly examine lower time frames in most cases.
The bar marked A in Figure 6.4 shows an example of this entry in Caterpillar, Inc. (NYSE:
CAT). The single candle with a long shadow below the support at the bottom of the ﬂag is
indicative of a small climax move on the lower time frame. This entry has the advantage
of excellent trade location; some of these will actually be very near the low tick of the
pullback. The only real disadvantage of this entry is that considerable experience may
be required to read the market correctly at these spots, and, even on relatively long time
frames, you have to pay attention because the exhaustion below support will happen on
a single bar. This is a skilled trader’s tool, not a buy-and-forget entry.
The second entry trigger is actually buying against the support at the bottom of the
pullback, for example, at point B in Figure 6.4. It is always possible to ﬁnd examples
of this entry on historical charts, but it can be considerably more difﬁcult to make this
trade in real time. Stop placement is problematic because the support can drop, washing
weak-hand longs out of the market; the recovery from this fakeout is actually the pre-
viously discussed entry. Why put yourself in the position of being the weak trader who
is washed out of the market? However, if you are executing some variation of this buy-
ing against support plan (or shorting against resistance), it is essential to limit your loss
and your risk on these trades; some of them will drop support and trade lower with a
vengeance. Note also that this entry has much in common with the tools and techniques
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c06 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:38 Printer: Hamilton Printing
Practical Trading Templates 157
FIGURE 6.4 Two Entries in Pullbacks in an Uptrend
for simply trading against any support and resistance level—the same ideas, risks, and
caveats apply.
One pattern to avoid is buying against multiple (three or more) tests of support in
a pullback, as this pattern is often more indicative of an impending failure. The opera-
tive concept here is usually lower highs into support, as successive bounces ﬁnd fewer
willing buyers. This is not to say that retracement patterns that show this characteristic
never work out, but, on balance, they are lower-probability plays. Most traders will have
the most success if they restrict their operations to the best possible trades. The best
pullbacks are pauses in strong trends; there should be enough interest in the market that
the pullback does not languish too long near support or resistance.
Stop There are basically two schools of thought on stop placement in general. Many
traders want to put the stop as close to the pattern as possible, with the idea that doing
so minimizes the size of losing trades. This is correct as far as the magnitude of the
losses goes, but there are two other points to consider: First, trades should be sized so
that every loss is equivalent; there is no such thing as a “low risk” trade. (Some types of
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c06 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:38 Printer: Hamilton Printing
158 TRADING STRATEGIES
trades may be traded with different levels of risk, but, even then, risk levels should be
consistent for all trades of that type.) Second, and more importantly, very close stops
have a higher probability of being hit. When the probability of the loss is considered, a
very tight stop often is a much larger loss in terms of expected value than a farther stop.
My preference is to put stops farther away from the pattern, and to introduce a small
random “jitter” element to stop placement. One common mistake is to put your stop
where everyone else puts theirs, because markets tend to seek out those stop levels. If
you put yours a few ticks or cents beyond the obvious levels, you may still be swept out
if there is extra volatility beyond the level, but this is an unavoidable risk of trading. The
best we can do is to minimize it with intelligent stop placement. Figures 6.5 and 6.6 show
several pullback trades with both near and far stop levels marked; realize that these are
well-chosen examples of perfect entries, and perfect entries will rarely occur in actual
trading. Again, these are only guidelines, and active management is important. Stops may
be tightened dramatically a few bars into the trade, and the trade may also be managed
with a time stop.
FIGURE 6.5 Three Idealized Pullback Entries in the EURGBP (One Long and Two Short) with Near
and Far Stop Levels
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c06 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:38 Printer: Hamilton Printing
Practical Trading Templates 159
FIGURE 6.6 Three Pullback Entries in Sugar Futures with Near and Far Stop Levels
Proﬁt Target The most conservative proﬁt target is at the previous pivot high of the
setup leg for long traders, or at the low of the setup leg for shorts. (See Figure 6.7.) Many
traders who focus on pullbacks will bid or offer (for short or long trades) part of their
positions at the level, and are prepared to exit more of the position if the market runs
into trouble there. These levels are often cleared easily, but there can be considerable
volatility as some traders exit positions and others look to enter on breakouts beyond the
level. The difference of opinion and two-sided trading in these spots can lead to unusual
activity, but the strongest trends will continue past this level, extending into another leg.
A good exit plan will allow for the possibility of taking partial proﬁts while holding on to
part of the position for a possible extension into further trend legs.
Another common target is themeasured move objective (MMO), which is calculated
by taking the length of the setup leg (AB in Figure 6.8), adding that number to the pivot
point marked C, and expecting the CD leg to be approximately the same length as the
AB leg. There is no magic to this method. There is no mystical force at work here; the
operative concept is that markets tend to trade with a fairly consistent level of volatility,
and the MMO simply targets the approximate level at which we could expect the next
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c06 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:38 Printer: Hamilton Printing
160 TRADING STRATEGIES
FIGURE 6.7 Three Idealized Entries in U.S. Steel Corporation (NYSE: X) with Conservative Proﬁt
Targets Marked
swing to terminate based on the prevailing volatility levels and the average swing sizes
of the market. Rather than treating this as an exact level, consider it a zone and give some
consideration to what the correct course of action would be if the market stalls some-
where near this area. In general, the correct plan would be to take partial or complete
proﬁts even though the trade had not quite reached the target.
Last, it is also possible to manage pullback trades using risk multiples as proﬁt tar-
gets, for instance, taking partial proﬁts at one or two times (1 × or 2×) the initial risk
on the trade. This is a solid plan, but it probably also makes sense to incorporate infor-
mation from the conservative and MMO proﬁt targets, as they are based on the reality
of market structure and volatility-driven relationships. For instance, if the ﬁrst 1 × risk
proﬁt target is a little beyond the conservative previous swing target, it might be a good
idea to move the target to the conservative target. However, if you are trading the 1 ×
plan and ﬁnd that your ﬁrst target is signiﬁcantly beyond the conservative target, an ad-
justment might skew the reward/risk ratio signiﬁcantly. These are the types of issues that
must be considered within a comprehensive trading plan.
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c06 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:38 Printer: Hamilton Printing
Practical Trading Templates 161
FIGURE 6.8 The MMO Price Target for the First Pullback Trade in X
Comments We will look at several variations of this trade, but the concept of using
pullbacks in trending markets is one of the most robust discretionary trading techniques.
It uses the normal pattern of a trending market (impulse-retracement-impulse) to posi-
tion at attractive prices in the trend. Trading these patterns successfully is not as easy as
might be expected. One challenge is assessing the strength of the trend while looking for
that ﬁne line between a very strong market and one that is overextended, perhaps primed
for reversal. Trades in the latter market are much more likely to fail and result in losses,
so being able to discriminate between the two environments is an essential trading skill.
All of the information in the sections on trend structure must eventually be considered
in trading these patterns and incorporated into your trading plan. Much of this can be
quantiﬁed, but some traders will be more comfortable using much of this information on
a subjective, almost subconscious, level.
Another potential challenge is in the timing of the entry. Because pullbacks often
have many of the characteristics of small trading ranges, price action within pullbacks
tends to be more random and it can be difﬁcult to time the entry point with conﬁdence.
In addition, pullbacks are actually contratrend lower time frame trends, so early entries
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c06 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:38 Printer: Hamilton Printing
162 TRADING STRATEGIES
can result in losses if the lower time frame trend is still in control. The third challenge is
stop placement. The general idea with stop placement is to avoid the noise and to place
stops at a level that would prove the trade incorrect. Finding this point in pullbacks can
be a little more difﬁcult; the lower time frame trends sometimes continue further than
expected, and conservative stops can be hit at exactly the wrong point. In fact, one of
these failures is so common that it deserves separate consideration under the category
of complex pullbacks.
Despite all of these potential issues, many traders will ﬁnd that pullbacks offer some
of the most attractive and consistent trading opportunities. A proﬁtable trading plan can
be built around this one trade, though an awareness of trend termination patterns will
inform your perspective and help you manage losing trades. The next setup looks at an
entry that combines the power of the pullback with the direction of momentum on the
shortest time frames.
PULLBACK, ENTERING LOWER TIME
FRAME BREAKOUT
Trade Type
Trend continuation and breakout blend.
Concept This trade setup times the entry into the pullback by using the momentum
of a lower time frame breakout so that the trade will be entered when the market is
moving in the intended direction of the trade. This entry has the advantage of offering the
conﬁrmation of momentum with the trade-off that trade location will not be as good. This
entry will require larger initial stops compared to entering near support or resistance, and
have correspondingly lower reward/risk ratios.
Setup This is another variation on the pullback concept; the same setup conditions as
in the previous trade apply here.
Trigger The difference is the actual entry trigger, which, in this case, is on a break-
out of some structure within the pullback itself, usually visible most clearly on a lower
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c06 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:38 Printer: Hamilton Printing
Practical Trading Templates 163
FIGURE 6.9 A Breakout on the Intraday (Left Pane) Serves as an Entry into the Higher Time
Frame Pattern
time frame. Figure 6.9 shows an example in Dendreon Corporation (Nasdaq: DNDN) in
which a breakout of resistance on the 78-minute time frame provided a good entry into
the pullback on the daily chart. Taken by itself, the breakout on the 78-minute is not
a compelling entry—it is a valid breakout, but it does not have any supporting factors
that make it an exceptional trade. The daily chart provides context for this otherwise
unimpressive breakout, and the upward momentum from the intraday time frame transi-
tioned into a larger move on the daily time frame. This is a single example, but the same
concept can be applied to any set of properly related time frames: 1-minute/5-minute,
10-minute/30-minute, daily/weekly, or weekly/monthly.
Some traders simplify this approach to merely trading breakouts of the previous
bar on the trading time frame. Over a large set of trades, this approach is hit or miss
because the high of the trading time frame bar may or may not actually be an important
point in the market or on the lower time frame. There is no magic to a breakout of the
bar on any time frame, because the chart is simply a representation of the underlying
market. In most cases, paying attention to lower time frame price action will allow for
cleaner entries, but it is sometimes possible to identify clear support and resistance on
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c06 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:38 Printer: Hamilton Printing
164 TRADING STRATEGIES
the trading time frame. For instance, if a series of two to three bars all have the same high
and all of the other conditions for a good pullback are fulﬁlled, paying a breakout through
those highs is often a good entry. This is perhaps more common intraday, but it also
occurs on higher time frames, particularly in liquid markets. It is not, however, common
enough to be a bread-and-butter trade; it is more properly understood as a variation of a
common pattern.
One other issue to consider on higher time frames is that markets will frequently
gap open beyond intended entry points. This happens in all setups, but is particularly
common and the gaps may be unusually large in these pullback breakouts. Consider this
carefully in your trading plan. Will you skip these entries altogether, wait for a better
entry, or enter at whatever price you have to? If you do enter on the gap, will you enter
your entire position or perhaps only a partial and look to add the rest at a later point? If
you do enter on the opening, will you enter right on the opening print, or will you wait
for a few minutes’ price action to deﬁne the opening range? There may not be one right
or wrong answer to each question, but some are surely better than others.
Stop There are basically two schools of thought on stop placement in these trades. In
the case of the lower time frame breakout trigger, many traders will want to use a very
tight stop, operating under the assumption that if the breakout is truly a critical tipping
point, they can simply exit the market for a very small loss if the anticipated move fails
to develop. Furthermore, after booking this very small loss, they will have the freedom
to reenter the market multiple times until they ﬁnally catch the move they were looking
for all along. Traders taking this approach will argue that they are trading a higher time
frame pattern with potential reward proportional to the swings on that time frame while
using much smaller risk levels from the lower time frame.
Though this is potentially a valid approach in some contexts, it is not usually the best
practice. The small losses do add up, and these very tight stops do not respect the reality
of the noise level in the market. My preference is to use a larger stop that is true to the
geometry of the trading time frame pattern. Yes, there is motivation to have the stop
as tight as reasonably possible (because the trade will then support a larger position
size, not because it is a lower-risk trade), but there is an unavoidable trade-off between
reward/risk ratio and probability. Assuming both traders trade consistently, the trader
using a tight stop and the trader using the wider stop will have approximately the same
expected payoff over a large number of trades. (There is an important lesson there.) In
addition, the trader using the very tight stop with the plan to reenter will incur multiple
transaction costs (including paying the spread, which is not trivial in some markets or
time frames) and runs the ultimate risk of not having the position on when the market
ﬁnally does make the move.
For traders using very tight stops, position sizing is a serious problem. How many
entries will it take until they ﬁnally catch the trade? Two? Five? More? Each one of these
attempts will incur a loss. If they trade small enough that the losses are insigniﬁcant, the
winning trades will also be insigniﬁcant. If they trade with meaningful size, they will not
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c06 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:38 Printer: Hamilton Printing
Practical Trading Templates 165
be able to enter the same trade very many times. Why play these games when a proper
stop can be set that involves less work, lower transaction costs, and better payout?
Proﬁt Target The same proﬁt targets apply to all pullback trades.
Comments This trade setup addresses the key issue of precisely timing the entry into
the pullback pattern. In the best cases, the market will never return to the entry price and
the trade will be easy and painless from that point. These cases where the trade works
perfectly are a minority, but, even in other cases, the character of the move after the
pullback often gives good information about the balance of buying and selling pressure in
the market. This combination of a breakout trade nested within a pullback is a powerful
tool for discretionary traders on all time frames.
TRADING COMPLEX PULLBACKS
Trade Type
Trend continuation.
Concept Complex pullbacks, which are pullbacks composed of two distinct coun-
tertrend legs, are very common, especially in mature trends. A good understanding
of these structures is important, because they will often result in losses for traders who
are trading simple pullbacks. Furthermore, many of the best pullbacks—those followed
by the strongest, cleanest moves—are complex pullbacks, so a comprehensive trading
plan must embrace this pattern.
Setup A complex pullback is a complete ABCD trend structure itself: the ﬁrst coun-
tertrend leg is a lower time frame trend (counter to the higher time frame trend), fol-
lowed by a retracement against the lower time frame trend (i.e., in the direction of the
higher time frame trend), which is then followed by another countertrend leg. To actually
trade these patterns, traders need to be aware of two distinct forms: one that shows the
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c06 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:38 Printer: Hamilton Printing
166 TRADING STRATEGIES
FIGURE 6.10 A Complex Pullback in the EURUSD
Note two clearly visible countertrend legs (AB and CD).
three legs clearly and one that hides them, buried within the lower time frame structure.
Figure 6.10 shows a near-perfect example of the ﬁrst type of complex consolidation that
clearly shows three separate legs with an ABCD structure.
There are other cases in which the structure of the complex consolidation is not
as clearly visible on the trading time frame. The lower time frame will usually show the
distinct trend legs, but they may not be visible on the trading time frame. For experienced
traders, it is usually not necessary to explicitly examine the lower time frame, as the
structure can usually be inferred from the trading time frame. At ﬁrst, it may be easiest
to recognize this structure on candlestick charts because they better highlight the open-
to-close direction within each period. Most candles in pullbacks will be colored against
the trend that set up the pullback; that is, pullbacks in uptrends will consist of full candles
(red on modern charting packages) and pullbacks in downtrends will usually be empty
(green) candles. This second complex pullback pattern is one or two with-trend candles
in the middle of what otherwise looks like a simple pullback. The with-trend candle or
candles usually represent(s) an aborted attempt to resume the primary trend, and this
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c06 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:38 Printer: Hamilton Printing
Practical Trading Templates 167
FIGURE 6.11 What Appears to Be a Simple Pullback on the Daily Chart of EURUSD Resolves into
a Complex Consolidation on the 120-Minute Time Frame (Inset)
usually hints at a complex pullback hiding under the trading time frame structure. Since
some traders will treat moves out of complex pullbacks differently than those out of
simple pullbacks, it is important to be able to discern this subtle cue. Figures 6.11 and
6.12 show examples of hidden complex pullbacks.
In a sense, complex pullbacks are nothing more than a category of pullbacks, so
all of the conditions for other pullback trades apply here, with one modiﬁcation. It is
usually a good idea to avoid pullbacks after conditions that could indicate a buying or
selling climax. We have looked at these parabolic expansions and have seen that they
frequently cap trends, so it does not make sense to enter with-trend pullbacks after such
a move. Conﬁrmation of the end of the trend is very strong countertrend momentum
following such a condition, but market structure can unfold in another way: Rather than
shifting into an immediate change of trend, the market can also consolidate and work off
the overextension through a more extended consolidation. Normal (simple) pullbacks
do this, as they give the market time to pause and digest each trend leg. In the case
of a more serious overextension, a larger consolidation is usually required if the trend
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c06 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:38 Printer: Hamilton Printing
168 TRADING STRATEGIES
FIGURE 6.12 A Hidden Complex Pullback in Sugar Futures
This would be a clear complex pullback on an intraday time frame.
is going to continue, and these longer consolidations often take the form of complex
consolidations.
If you see a condition that would normally eliminate the possibility of a pullback
(e.g., a buying or selling climax), a with-trend trade may still be possible following a
complex consolidation in that same area. It is often easier to evaluate the integrity of
the trend on the higher time frame, as the trading time frame complex consolidation will
usually be a simple consolidation on the higher time frame. Figure 6.13 shows one way a
complex consolidation can provide a potential entry after a small buying climax.
Trigger Either of the two triggers already discussed for pullbacks—entering at sup-
port or on a breakout—are valid for complex consolidations. The support play, espe-
cially if backed up by a momentum shift on the lower time frame, is easier in complex
consolidations than in simple consolidations because the stop is more clearly established
due to the termination of the second pullback leg. In addition, both countertrend legs of
the pullback tend to be similar lengths, so it is often possible to predict the general area
where the second leg will stop using a measured move objective (AB = CD). (This is a
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c06 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:38 Printer: Hamilton Printing
Practical Trading Templates 169
Do not buy this pullback 
after a vertical, climactic 
move.
But, if the market is able to 
hold together in a complex 
consolidation, a pullback 
Yes
?
FIGURE 6.13 Complex Pullbacks Can Provide Entries Where Simple Pullbacks Should Be Avoided
guideline for trends in general, but the market tends to respect this principle even more
strongly in pullbacks.)
Stop Another advantage of complex consolidations is that the stop level is more
clearly deﬁned. In simple consolidations, it is usually a bad idea to set a stop just un-
derneath (for a long position) the consolidation area, but in complex pullbacks this is
often an excellent risk point. There certainly are variations of complex pullbacks that
have three or more pullbacks, each of which would result in another stop-out, but they
are uncommon. The movements out of those also tend to be less reliable, so it does not
make sense to make these a focus in the trading plan.
Proﬁt Target The same proﬁt targets apply to complex as to simple pullbacks, per-
haps with the expectation that a stronger move could develop from a complex consoli-
dation. You might be justiﬁed in taking less of your position off at your ﬁrst proﬁt target,
and trying to press more size for a larger move compared to a simple pullback. If you
decide to do this, weigh the beneﬁts of having simple rules (e.g., take one-third of your
position off at the previous swing) that enforce discipline and consistency against any
incremental gains from a more complex approach.
Comments One important issue not yet considered is that these complex pullbacks
often come following losing trades in simple pullbacks. This creates a risk management
question that must be considered. Assume you want to risk $10,000 on each trade, and
you just booked a $10,000 loss on a simple pullback, which, a few days later, is clearly
developing into a complex pullback. What now? There are many possible answers, but
it is important to have a clear plan before this situation is encountered. Risk manage-
ment scenarios deserve careful consideration, planning, and maybe even quantitative
modeling—these are not decisions to be made on the ﬂy.
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c06 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:38 Printer: Hamilton Printing
170 TRADING STRATEGIES
THE ANTI
Enter Short
Trade Type
Trend termination.
Concept This trade is a very speciﬁc pullback variation that attempts to enter the ﬁrst
pullback after a potential trend change.
Setup There are two setup conditions for this trade. The ﬁrst is that the market must
have made a pattern that suggests the current trend could be terminating. Many of these
patterns were discussed in Chapters 3 and 5: loss of momentum on successive thrusts,
an extremely overextended market on the higher time frame, some type of double top
or bottom formation where the market is unable to make a continuation, or perhaps a
failure test. The second requirement is that the market then makes a move that shows a
distinct change of character, such as a shift of momentum against the old trend. In the
case of an uptrend, a downswing would emerge that was much stronger than previous
downswings. This move would likely register a new momentum low on momentum indi-
cators, suggesting further that the integrity of the uptrend had been challenged. This is
the setup sequence, and both parts are important: the initial market structure that pro-
vides justiﬁcation for potential countertrend trades, followed by a shift of momentum
that shows that the dominant trend players have lost control of the market.
Trigger The actual entry for this trade is in the ﬁrst pullback following the strong
countertrend price movement. For example, imagine a market that has been in an up-
trend and then puts in a sharp downward spike (countertrend to the uptrend). The next
bounce following that spike is potentially the ﬁrst pullback in a new downtrend;t h i s
trade represents an attempt to reverse, or at least to create a signiﬁcant pause in the pre-
existing uptrend. Price action and evolving market structure must be carefully monitored
in the pullback for warning signs that the pullback could fail and that the original trend
may still be intact. This structure is a pullback and, to a great extent, can be traded like
any other pullback. What distinguishes this pullback is its position in the evolving market
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c06 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:38 Printer: Hamilton Printing
Practical Trading Templates 171
structure as the ﬁrst pullback following a potential trend change; normal pullbacks are
continuation patterns in established trends.
The Anti pullback may be entered via either of the two pullback entries already ex-
plored. The breakout entry may actually have a slightly better edge in this context than
in a normal pullback, but it is also possible to position within the pullback using the
support/resistance of the pattern itself. This is also a good example of how trading skills
can be modular; the skills of trading pullbacks are applied here in another context. The
third entry for this trade is probably not ideal. Because this is a countertrend trade, your
risk point is clearly deﬁned so you can simply enter anywhere into that ﬁrst pullback with
a stop outside the existing trend extreme (i.e., shorting into the ﬁrst bounce following a
strong down spike with a stop above recent highs). This is a sloppy entry in most cases,
but there are times and time frames when we may not want to micromanage and ﬁght
over every tick.
Stop The general rule of stops in countertrend trades applies here: these stops must
be respected without exception. There are two reasonable stops for this pattern. One
choice is to simply put the stop beyond the trend extreme. Any price action inside that
level (below it for an uptrend, above it for a downtrend) is consolidation and may still
be supportive of trend change. If the level is violated, we know the countertrend at-
tempt has failed and the probabilities favor trend continuation. This is the most conser-
vative stop: farthest away from the market and at a level where the trend reversal has
decisively failed.
More aggressive stops, corresponding to larger position sizes, can be placed closer to
the market, using any of the guidelines for stops in pullbacks. As usual, there are at least
two arguments to consider: One, these areas tend to be more volatile, so closer stops
may be more likely to get hit in the noise. Two, there can be a lot of pent-up countertrend
pressure at these inﬂections, and the move, once it starts to develop, is often very clean.
The most important thing is to have a plan and to execute it consistently so you are not
making emotionally driven decisions in the heat of battle.
Proﬁt Target The question of where to take proﬁts is tied in to the expectations for
countertrend trades in general. In some sense, the term countertrend is a misnomer,
because the ideal outcome is for a new trend to begin from the point the trade was
initiated; the trade would then be a with-trend trade in this new trend. Countertrend
trades demand closer proﬁt targets and tighter risk management than with-trend trades
because of the danger of exceptional volatility if the trend change fails and the old trend
reasserts itself. One good proﬁt-taking plan splits the difference, taking off a signiﬁcant
amount of the exposure (33 to 66 percent) at the ﬁrst proﬁt target and holding the rest
for a possible extension into a new trend.
The MMO is an important factor in this trade. It is very common to see the ﬁrst thrust
after the initial pullback exhaust itself at the MMO, and then to see the market turn back
down and eventually violate the previous trend extreme. Why? Because, at this point,
the pattern has evolved into a complex consolidation, and trend continuation (of the
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c06 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:38 Printer: Hamilton Printing
172 TRADING STRATEGIES
original trend) is more likely. Monitor the market carefully for action in the neighborhood
of the MMO. If it breaks, there is the possibility that you have just caught a major trend
reversal. If, however, it holds and there is no continued countertrend momentum (and the
pattern suggests a complex consolidation), be very protective of any remaining proﬁts in
the position.
Figure 6.14 shows an example of a sell Anti on the 30-minute chart of SPY. Consider
every element of this trade carefully: The market had been in an extended uptrend and
gapped above the upper channel at A, indicating a potential climax and overextension.
This was the ﬁrst warning of a potential trend change. At B, a strong countertrend leg
developed, longer in both price and time than previous upswings. This down leg showed
a distinct change of character and suggested that the bulls might have lost control, at
least for a moment. The momentum indicator conﬁrmed, marking a signiﬁcant new low
(relative to its recent history) at B1. Point C marked a controlled pullback, and it is at
this point we can begin to assess the balance of buyers and sellers in this market. It
is entirely possible that the drop at B will be erased and the market will explode to new
highs, but the clue will be price action at point C. If, as in this case, the upward movement
is weak, the probabilities favor another leg down as a natural reaction to B. This is a
FIGURE 6.14 A Sell Anti on 30-Minute SPY Bars
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c06 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:38 Printer: Hamilton Printing
Practical Trading Templates 173
subtle way to read the market, but these are important principles. Furthermore, there
is no magic here and even beginning traders can quickly assimilate this type of thinking
into their repertoires. The measured move objective (marked D in Figure 6.14) provided
some minor support, and would have been a reasonable spot to take initial proﬁts. Once
those proﬁts are booked, it also makes sense to tighten the stop so that the worst possible
outcome is a breakeven trade.
Comments This is a powerful trade, and the sequence should be internalized: there
must be, ﬁrst, a reason for even contemplating the possibility of a countertrend trade;
second, an initial impulse to conﬁrm that the trend pattern is broken, that the dominant
group has lost control of the market; and third, the actual entry in the pullback. This is a
reliable pattern on all time frames, and is especially powerful for intraday traders when
combined with time-of-day inﬂuences.
The name Anti is borrowed from Linda Raschke. In Street Smarts: High Probability Short-
Term Trading Strategies (1996) she gives a speciﬁc deﬁnition of this trade in that it
quantiﬁes the momentums on two time frames using the stochastic indicator. The pat-
tern essentially is that the fast and slow lines of the indicator are sloping against each
other. Look at Figure 6.14 again and notice that the slow line (dotted) of the moving av-
erage convergence/divergence (MACD) has just rolled over, and the fast line hooks up
after B1. This shows that the shorter-term momentum is against (hence the termAnti)t h e
longer-term momentum following a shift of that longer-term direction. There is validity
in that approach and screening tools can be developed oﬀ similar indicator patterns, but
my preference is to focus on the price structure. The indicator will sometimes highlight
structures that are not clearly visible on the price bars, but it will also give false posi-
tives at times. The core concept of this trade is captured more cleanly in the pure market
structure approach.
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c06 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:38 Printer: Hamilton Printing
174 TRADING STRATEGIES
BREAKOUTS, ENTERING IN THE PRECEDING BASE
Trade Type
Support/resistance breaking.
Concept Breakouts are an important class of trades and can give rise to strong price
moves beyond the breakout point. Schematically, there are three places to enter break-
out trades: before, after, or on the breakout. Trades entered on the breakout can incur
high slippage and poor trade location due to the high volatility and low liquidity that ac-
company many of these trades; many traders ﬁnd better success with executing either
before or after the actual breakout. We will ﬁrst look at some characteristic patterns pre-
ceding good breakouts in which the market tips its hand and shows that energy is being
built up to support the breakout. (Think classic accumulation.) It is possible to enter in
these formations preceding the breakout in order to have better trade location and to
sidestep the potential slippage.
Setup Unfolding price action creates many potential support and resistance levels in
the market. Most of these are insigniﬁcant—most support and resistance levels are noth-
ing more than mirages. However, a very small set of these levels become extremely im-
portant, and, when violated, the pressure gives rise to a strong move beyond the level.
For breakout trades, this is the ﬁrst and most important condition: you must identify one
of these signiﬁcant levels that is likely to give good action when broken. If you are work-
ing with these levels and their accompanying formations, entering the trades properly,
and managing them appropriately, breakout trades can be relatively easy. If you attempt
breakout trades at insigniﬁcant levels and without a good plan, consistent losses will
erode your trading account.
Good breakout levels are usually levels that are clearly visible to all market partic-
ipants. For instance, there are levels that have been tested cleanly multiple times, and
it is obvious to even a casual chart reader that price has been unable to penetrate the
level. This creates trading opportunities because some traders will make decisions when
price eventually does get through the level. Whether they are stopping out of existing
positions, taking proﬁts, or entering on the breakouts does not matter; what does matter
is that there will be additional volume and order ﬂow when this important price level is
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c06 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:38 Printer: Hamilton Printing
Practical Trading Templates 175
FIGURE 6.15 A Very Clean Breakout Level in XOMA
violated. Figure 6.15 shows an example of a very clean level that set up a good intraday
breakout in XOMA Ltd (Nasdaq: XOMA).
On daily and higher time frames, it is unusual to see perfectly clear levels, but signif-
icant and visible support or resistance can still set up good breakout trades. Figure 6.16
shows an example of a typical breakout level on a daily chart, here illustrated in the stock
of Cree, Inc. (Nasdaq: CREE). There are two other points to consider on this chart: First,
penetrations of levels before the breakout usually seem to expend some of the energy
behind the breakout, and often lead to poor trades. The key question is how long and
how signiﬁcant these penetrations through the level were. In Figure 6.16, the level was
not perfectly clean, but there was no signiﬁcant price action above the level preceding
the breakout, only small and short-lived failure tests. Second, the actual breakout entry
was a gap through the resistance level, which brings some execution challenges to the
table. Many traders will be tempted to skip these trades, as they will be forced to enter
at signiﬁcantly higher prices than they had planned, and will be exposed to the danger of
a gap failure. This is a mistake because a gap through an important level usually hints at
a powerful shift in market dynamics. Some of the best breakouts are “gap and go” trades
that open beyond the level and never look back.
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c06 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:38 Printer: Hamilton Printing
176 TRADING STRATEGIES
FIGURE 6.16 A Gap Opening Above a Breakout Level in CREE
The best and strongest breakouts will usually be preceded by a formation that in-
dicates buying pressure may be building against the resistance level. (Though this dis-
cussion focuses on buying breakouts, the exact patterns apply, inverted, for breakdowns
below support.) One common form of this pattern is a tight range near the top of a larger
range, as in Figure 6.17. This is another form of accumulation in which the pressure from
buyers has pinned the market at a relatively high price. This small range near a resistance
level, usually inside of a larger range, is referred to as a breakout base.
Another variation of this same idea has a market holding successively higher highs
into the resistance level, as in Figure 6.18. This is yet another variation on the accumu-
lation theme, as buyers have been willing to buy the market at higher prices on each
decline. Though not a bidding war, this pattern does suggest that large buying interests
are watching this market and may be building substantial positions. In these cases, the
base is not as clearly deﬁned by a chart pattern, which can make stop location more
challenging, but the important factor is still the coiling of buying pressure against resis-
tance. Also, the classic cup and handle formation is a variation on this same idea. This is
also an illustration of the principle that most classic chart patterns can be better under-
stood in the context of simple length of swing analysis.
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c06 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:38 Printer: Hamilton Printing
Practical Trading Templates 177
Base
FIGURE 6.17 Schematic of a Breakout Base
Trigger The actual entry is in the consolidation preceding the breakout. Positioning
in this prebreakout base allows us to avoid having to play in the extreme volatility of the
breakout itself. As a rule of thumb, entries in consolidations are usually less precise than
entries in trends. Conceptually, we would like to buy as close to the bottom of the base
as possible, but the most important thing is to get the position on. There are at least three
logical entry triggers, each with some potential drawbacks. (These examples are for long
trades, but apply, reversed, to shorts as well.)
r Once the base establishes itself, bid near the bottom of the smaller range. One po-
tential drawback is that this order will be ﬁlled only in a declining market, meaning
that you are buying against the short-term momentum. Another drawback is that the
order may not be ﬁlled at all, so it may not be possible to get the position. Sometimes
you will identify the range, bid near the bottom, and then watch the breakout as the
market never returns to the bottom of the base. In these cases, you will miss the
trade. However, the times that the order is ﬁlled will result in the best possible trade
location, at or very near the bottom of the range.
r Once the base establishes itself, wait for springs (i.e., drops below the support at the
bottom of the base that immediately recover back above the support level) and enter
on the close of those bars. Though you will now probably be entering with the short-
term momentum due to the recovery back above support, not every range features
FIGURE 6.18 Higher Lows into a Resistance Level: Another Form of Prebreakout Accumulation
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c06 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:38 Printer: Hamilton Printing
178 TRADING STRATEGIES
springs or upthrusts. In addition, this is a high-maintenance execution technique that
requires good focus on subtle details of price action.
r Just get the position on, anywhere in the range. This one isn’t pretty, but the reality
of trading is that our executions are not always at perfect, ideal points. Imagine we
identify a breakout trade that has 10 points of upside potential out of a 5-point large
range, with a 1.5-point base near the top of the larger range. If we can buy in that
base and give it a 2-point stop, then maybe it doesn’t make sense to try to squeeze an
extra half point out by bidding near the low of the range.
There is no right or wrong here, and each trader will have to make the decision based
on his personality and on how he intends to manage the trade. A trader who takes the
proverbial 30,000-foot view and wants to manage things from a big-picture perspective
might establish anywhere in the range and just not care about pennies. Another trader
might intend to actively trade around and manage the position on the actual breakout;
for this trader, pennies might be very signiﬁcant indeed.
This is also a good place to consider the adverse selection effect of entering on limit
orders. Assume that trader A and trader B both identify the same set of 10 potential
breakout trades and are buying bases before those breakouts. Also assume, though they
would not know it in advance, that ﬁve of the trades will be losers. Trader A indiscrimi-
nately buys in the base and manages the trades, exiting his losers if they drop decisively
below the bottom of the range. Trader B is much more precise with his entries and al-
ways bids at the bottom of the range. He is also disciplined about his exits from losing
trades, and exits at the same points trader A exits his losing trades. Trader A and B both
book their disciplined losers, though trader B’s total loss is slightly smaller because of
his consistently better trade location. Of the ﬁve winning trades, perhaps three went to
the bottom of the range where trader B was ﬁlled on his position before the breakout.
Trader A and B both booked winners, though, again, trader B’s winners were slightly
bigger, due to better trade location. Assume that the two remaining winning trades never
went to the bottom of the base, so trader B was not ﬁlled on his entries, while trader A
participated fully.
This is a truism of using limit orders, and one that most people choose to ignore: if
you enter on limit orders, you will price yourself out of some set of winning trades that
never trade to (or, more realistically, through) your limit price while you will always
participate fully in all losing trades. This is important—traders entering on limits will
not be ﬁlled on some winners but will be ﬁlled on every losing trade. In our hypothetical
example, we know trader B will miss some of trader A’s winning trades. We also know
that he will have a small advantage, compared to trader A, on every trade because of
better trade location, and the key question is whether that incremental gain is enough to
more than compensate for the missed proﬁts from the remaining two trades. This trade-
off between market order and limit order entry styles is an important issue to consider,
and one that is sorely neglected in the trading literature.
Stop There are two separate parts in the life cycle of this trade, requiring two sepa-
rate approaches to trade management. The trade entry, by deﬁnition, is early. We are
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c06 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:38 Printer: Hamilton Printing
Practical Trading Templates 179
FIGURE 6.19 A Failure below the Bottom of a Range in 5-Minute EURUSD
anticipating a breakout that may or may not happen, so when do we exit if the planned-
for breakout does not develop? One simple strategy might be to put a stop below the
lowest point reached while the market was in the base, with the plan that if you are
stopped out on a temporary drop you probably must reenter the trade. Another approach
is to set a much wider stop for the purposes of position sizing and risk management (see
Chapter 8), with the idea to stop out before the level is reached if developing price action
contradicts the trade. For instance, in Figure 6.19, a trader using the second plan would
not have been stopped out when the bottom of the range dropped at A. Quick drops be-
low previous support are to be expected, and rapid recoveries are actually ideal buying
opportunities. However, once the market consolidated below that support level at B, the
probabilities began to favor a breakdown and another trend leg down, so there was no
sense in riding the trade to the initial stop level.
The second issue to consider is how you will manage the trade after the breakout
occurs. Here, knowledge of the pullback patterns that occur after breakouts is essential.
There are many possible choices, but the plan must be consistent with the realities of
market action. If watching $50.00 as a potential breakout level, many traders would move
their stop up to $50.00 or right under that level once the breakout actually happens. Their
logic is that, if the breakout was actually valid, price should not come back below $50.00.
This would seem to make sense, but the market does not work like this. Many excellent
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c06 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:38 Printer: Hamilton Printing
180 TRADING STRATEGIES
breakouts come back to retest or to exceed the breakout level in an effort to shake out
weak-hand players; a good trading plan will not put you in this position of weakness.
My approach to stops is so consistent that it is boring—I always set stops at places
where the market should not go if my trade is correct. If I set a stop there and the market
reaches the stop, the trade is wrong and I must exit. Setting a stop somewhere that it can
be hit without my trade thesis being violated is anathema to me—why incur additional
risk and transaction costs in the normal volatility of the market? Furthermore, it also
usually does not make sense to dramatically tighten the stops once the breakout actually
occurs, though it is also important to be sensitive to the patterns that suggest a breakout
is failing. Distinguishing between these failures and the standard pullbacks of successful
breakouts is a key skill for breakout traders to develop.
Proﬁt Target Some traders will set ratio-based targets for breakout trades. Common
examples use, for instance, measured move objectives based on the width of the pre-
ceding range or the base. These make sense for the same reason that all measured move
objectives do—they simply deﬁne the magnitude of swings that are average for any given
market, though it is important to realize that prebreakout conditions often feature abnor-
mally contracted volatility. Ratio-based targets are apt to be unnecessarily conservative
in these cases.
In general, I do not favor setting proﬁt targets for breakout trades, because, in the
best cases, you just entered a new trend at its inception, and it does not make sense to
give up that trade location as long as the trade is working well. Consider all of the possi-
bilities, ranging from outright failure to a single extension above the level to a completely
new trend. Just like with all my trades, I will take partial proﬁts at a level approximately
equal to my initial risk in the trade, and then will usually hold the remainder as long as the
new trend appears to be intact, perhaps taking partial proﬁts at other inﬂection points as
the trade develops. Once you have a breakout trade that has gone through one success-
ful, conﬁrming pullback, it is simply a trend trade and can be treated as such, managing
the pullbacks as in any other trend.
Comments We should also take a minute to consider simple channel breakout sys-
tems. It is well known by now that the core entry technique of the system the Turtles
were taught was a breakout of a 20-day or 55-day channel. If you examine these levels
carefully, you will see that most of them violate the rule I gave that good breakout levels
have to be very real, visible levels in the market. In fact, most of these 20-day or 55-
day highs/lows are not points that your eye would be drawn to on a chart. The success
of some of the Turtles has grown into the stuff of legend and myth, but the breakouts
were not the important part of that system. The general trading public has the idea that
the Turtles traded breakouts of 20-day highs, but, in reality, much of their success was
due to systematic approaches that were designed to capture every trend in markets that
trended well at the time. The trade-off was that they had to accept many small losses on
entries that did not develop into good trends, but, for their system to work, theyhad to be
involved at the start of every potential trend. Our work in this book is focused on shorter-
term swing trades around breakout levels, which is a completely different kind of trading.
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c06 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:38 Printer: Hamilton Printing
Practical Trading Templates 181
BREAKOUTS, ENTERING ON FIRST
PULLBACK FOLLOWING
Trade Type
Support/resistance breaking.
Concept The ﬁrst pullback after a breakout offers a spot to initiate a position in the
direction of the new trend supported by the conﬁrmation of a successful breakout. This
entry also avoids the volatility of the actual breakout area, and the uncertainty inherent
in positions established in the prebreakout base.
Setup The market has made a successful breakout of an important level. Furthermore,
there is good activity (volume, volatility, and price action) beyond the level, proving that
it was a valid breakout. The initial upthrust exhausts itself, the market rolls over, and a
pullback begins.
Trigger This pullback can be treated as a standard pullback, with any of the standard
pullback trigger entries.
Stop If the pullback is treated like any other pullback, the logical choice is to use the
same stops you would apply to any pullback trade. There are two other levels worth
considering here: the actual breakout level itself and any prebreakout reference level
(e.g., support in the base, or the highest low preceding the breakout). Many traders will
work with the idea that the breakout level should be a good price for stops, but it is
not. Some of the strongest continuations will drop back below the level, stopping out
naive weak-hand short-term traders, and then turn to trade much higher. These traders,
now trapped out of the market, will have to chase it higher, adding additional impetus to
the move.
However, a good prebreakout level usually is a serviceable reference, and it is usually
possible to tighten stops enough that a loss does not have to be taken to this level. (This
level may still serve a useful purpose as a last-ditch exit and as a reference for position
sizing.) It is very hard to justify holding a simple breakout pullback that drops below the
pivot low of the prebreakout base, as this type of action is much more indicative of a
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c06 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:38 Printer: Hamilton Printing
182 TRADING STRATEGIES
failed breakout. However, it is not uncommon to see failed breakouts spend more time
consolidating before breaking out and working on a second breakout attempt. These are
certainly not the cleanest and easiest trades, and most traders will ﬁnd that they enjoy
the best success restricting their involvement to ﬁrst breakout attempts.
It is easy to overcomplicate these trades and to try to factor too many additional
levels and patterns into the trading plan. At the end of the day, the ﬁrst pullback following
a breakout is nothing more than a pullback; there is no need for a complicated trade
management plan if you already have the skills to trade pullbacks on other contexts.
Proﬁt Target These are standard pullbacks, so standard pullback proﬁt targets apply
with one caveat: trends from good breakout levels tend to be exceptional trends. There
is a better than average chance that any ensuing trend will extend for several legs with
strong impulse moves. It still makes sense to maintain the discipline of taking partial
proﬁts, but it also makes sense to allow yourself the opportunity to participate in the
potentially outsized trend run. This is another place where as a trader you will need to
tailor the plan to ﬁt your personality, but, of course, the key is to actually have a plan. Do
not put yourself in a situation in which you have to make reactive decisions on the ﬂy.
Comments In some sense, this is a hybrid trade, combining characteristics of both
breakout and pullback trades, but it can be simpliﬁed further: it is really nothing more
than a simple pullback trade.
One last thought on breakout trades: we have not considered the higher time frame in
these trade setups, and it often does not matter. A clear breakout level on the trading time
frame will usually be an even clearer resistance level on the higher time frame, but there
are cases where the breakout is further supported by the higher time frame structure.
For instance, if an upside breakout on the trading time frame comes near the bottom
of a higher time frame pullback in an uptrend, then the trading time frame breakout is
essentially a breakout entry into the higher time frame pattern. Time frames often have
complex interactions with inﬂuences ﬂowing in both directions, but these considerations
can sometimes add signiﬁcant support to individual trade setups.
Al Brooks, in Reading Price Charts Bar by Bar: The Technical Analysis of Price Action for
the Serious Trader (2009), discusses many variations of breakout trades. Though many of
his comments and trading ideas are speciﬁc to intraday index futures, most of them can
be applied with some modiﬁcation to other markets and time frames. Brooks’s approach is
diﬀerent from mine in that he focuses much more on the minute details of each individual
price bar and its relationship to previous bars, while I tend to think there is much more
noise and randomness in the market at most times. Regardless, his book oﬀers a valuable
perspective and good food for thought.
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c06 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:38 Printer: Hamilton Printing
Practical Trading Templates 183
FAILED BREAKOUTS
Trade Type
Support/resistance holding.
Concept Most breakouts fail.
Setup When most traders think of breakout trades, they think of big, dramatic win-
ning trades, and it is not hard to ﬁnd examples like this. However, the trader actually
trading breakouts quickly comes face-to-face with a harsh reality: failed breakouts are
more common than winning breakouts. This is not an indictment of the breakout trading
concept, because exceptional reward/risk ratios can compensate for lower probability.
Furthermore, good breakout traders know how to prequalify their trades by focusing on
the patterns that tend to support successful breakouts and may have a higher winning
percentage than might be expected. There certainly is money to be made trading break-
outs, but it is also worthwhile to spend some time thinking about the patterns associated
with breakout failures.
It is difﬁcult to nail these patterns down because it is not uncommon for good break-
outs to have reactions that violate the breakout level. Imagine the frustration of the trader
working with this ﬂawed plan: pay into the actual breakout, and ﬂip the position short
if the breakout level does not hold. In the very common case of a volatile breakout with
a pullback that violates the breakout level, this trader will ﬁrst take a loss on the long
position, and will now be positioned short as the pullback in the new uptrend begins its
advance. This is a futile plan, but many developing traders fall into this trap because they
attach too much importance to the retest of the actual breakout level. It is important to
understand how the market really moves, rather than clinging to some idea of how the
market logically should work.
There are two setup conditions to consider: the strength of the move beyond the
breakout level, and the character of the ﬁrst reaction after the breakout. Good breakouts
should have strong momentum, volume, and interest beyond the level. If this does not
happen, it is more likely that the breakout will fail, perhaps painting a spring or upthrust
outside the previous support or resistance level. In successful breakouts, the ﬁrst reac-
tion should be controlled and in proportion to this breakout thrust. It should look like
a good pullback in the new trend, for that is exactly what it is. If the breakout fails, it
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c06 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:38 Printer: Hamilton Printing
184 TRADING STRATEGIES
FIGURE 6.20 A Failed Breakout Below Support in Crude Oil
will be through a failure of this ﬁrst pullback; this is a critical point in breakout trading.
If the ﬁrst reaction is very strong (i.e., the ﬁrst downswing after an upside breakout or
vice versa for a breakdown through support), it suggests a failure of the break interest
and greatly increased probability of trade failure. This is potentially confusing, so some
examples may help to clarify.
Figure 6.20 shows a failed breakdown attempt below support. The actual bar of the
breakout was a good entry, showing strong momentum through support, and the subse-
quent consolidation was also consistent with the breakout play. Most traders trading this
pattern should have been short, and should have been holding through the three small
bars following the point marked A. Though not a large pattern, these bars were a pull-
back or consolidation near the extreme of the previous downthrust and below previous
support. However, even with this generally constructive setup, the trade failed as buyers
stepped in and swept the market back above support at B, possibly fueled by additional
short-covering volatility. This is nothing more than a classic pullback failure via strong
countertrend momentum emerging in the pullback.
Figure 6.21 shows another example of a failed breakout, this time an upside break-
out in Goldman Sachs (NYSE: GS). There were several elements that should have put
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c06 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:38 Printer: Hamilton Printing
Practical Trading Templates 185
FIGURE 6.21 A Failed Upside Breakout Attempt in GS
the long pullback trader on warning: the actual breakout at A was not on good momen-
tum and did not show strong conviction. The pullback (four black candles beginning two
bars after A) retraced most of the breakout thrust. Though the penetration back through
the breakout level is not in itself cause for concern, it is not good to see so much of the
breakout retraced so easily. The actual failure came at point B, as the stock put in a fail-
ure test at the previous high. This is one of the standard ways in which pullbacks fail and
a good opportunity to use another trading pattern (the failure test from the beginning of
this chapter) in a supporting context. Good trading is nothing more than the disciplined
application of a few relatively simple fundamental building blocks.
Trigger Conceptually, this is the most problematic of the trade setups because we
have to strike a balance between waiting for conﬁrmation that the breakout has failed
while still getting a good trade location. In terms of actual execution, the breakout fail-
ure is nothing more than a failed pullback. Breakout traders need to understand that
the pullback pattern is a critical building block for these trades, and it is important to
understand the patterns that suggest pullbacks failing and continuing.
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c06 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:38 Printer: Hamilton Printing
186 TRADING STRATEGIES
Stop Saying most breakouts fail trivializes many of the issues we face trading these
patterns because of the extreme volatility associated with breakouts and their failures.
Being caught on the wrong side of a breakout trade (whether a successful or a failed
breakout) is bad news. Stop placement is fairly simple, as the ultimate stop is above the
extreme of the initial pullback thrust, but in this trade you must respect your stop fully
and without question. If the stop is hit, get out of the trade. Do not try to trade around
it; do not try to average your price. Just get out. You may play these games and get away
with it 30 times in a row, but the 31st trade could wipe out many months’ proﬁts. There
is danger here—real tail risk—that is hard to comprehend and impossible to quantify.
Proﬁt Target There are two likely resolutions to these trades. In some markets (for
instance, longer-term commodities) failed breakouts can be absorbed into a large-scale
consolidation. After spending some time working off the failure, the market may make
another breakout attempt and continue to grind higher. The second possibility is that the
market may truly melt down and collapse after a failed breakout. This outcome is slightly
more likely in shorter time frames, but what we are looking for here is a violation of
the base before the breakout and wholesale panic as trapped traders scramble to adjust
positions. A good trading plan will consider both possibilities, with a provision to take
partial proﬁts at a relatively close target while holding a portion for a larger swing.
From a practical standpoint, it probably makes sense to use the same proﬁt targets
on all trades, taking ﬁrst partial proﬁts at a point equal to the risk on the trade. In my
own trading plan, I tend to be be aggressive in taking those proﬁts on failed breakout
trades, perhaps even exiting more than half of my position at the ﬁrst target. As in all
other trades, I will adjust that target to respect the geometry of the pattern. If a target is
beyond a clear and signiﬁcant level, adjust it by moving it slightly inside the level. This is
nothing more than trading common sense.
Comments This is the most complex and least well deﬁned of the major trade setups.
Newer traders are probably best advised to not focus on this trade until some success is
achieved with the other setups, but it is important to study these failure patterns even if
you only intend to trade breakouts in the direction of the initial breakout. Awareness of
how patterns fail and how trades fail can help you limit your losses and manage losing
trades with equanimity. After you have traded many breakouts and internalized many
variations of these patterns, you will begin to develop some intuition about them. Until
then, the guidelines in this chapter will help you avoid some of the more serious and
more obvious mistakes in trading these patterns.
SUMMARY
This has been a fairly long list of potential trading patterns, presented in the order in
which I believe most traders should learn them. We started with the simplicity of the
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c06 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:38 Printer: Hamilton Printing
Practical Trading Templates 187
failure test, progressing to more complex pullbacks, then to the special situation of pull-
backs after trend changes. Last, the volatile set of breakouts were added, and failed
breakouts, which can be touchy, subjective, and dangerous, bring up the rear, so the
progression is from simple and well-deﬁned to complex and potentially confusing. There
are only three core concepts here, which express the tendency of the trend to continue
and the tendency of support and resistance to both hold and break. The other trade se-
tups are derived from combinations of these core trading concepts. If this chapter has
been confusing, consider this alternate classiﬁcation.
Primary Trades
r Pullback: The sine qua non of trend trading patterns (trend continuation).
r Failure test: A quick-and-dirty countertrend entry with a well-deﬁned risk point
(support/resistance holding).
r Breakout: The ultimate expression of support/resistance failing.
Derived Trades
r Anti: A trend termination pattern that uses the pullback pattern as an entry and for
conﬁrmation.
r Buying support in a pullback: Basically a failure test entry into the pullback pattern.
r Paying a breakout of a pullback: A combination of a lower time frame breakout with
a trading time frame pullback.
r Breakout, entering in base before: Anticipatory entry into a breakout trade; may use
support at the bottom of the base as an entry trigger, so the trade is actually a support
holding trade.
r Breakout, entering on ﬁrst pullback following: Puts a simple pullback entry and prob-
ability in the context of a breakout trade.
r Breakouts, failed: A more complex version of the failure test; many of these are sim-
ple higher time frame failure test trades, but the motivating patterns are the failure
patterns of pullbacks.
This is not an exhaustive list of the trade entries I have used successfully, but it is a
list of the most important ones. Notice the trades that are not here: no trades in ranges
unless the range is a more signiﬁcant structure in another time frame, no simple buying
or selling at support levels, and no fading overextended markets. I have not found these
to be reliable trades, nor have they been proﬁtable for me over a very large sample size.
If I have a burning desire to execute one of these trades, I can usually accomplish it
within one of the trade structures I have already set out. For instance, rather than simply
shorting into a runaway bull market that I feel has gone too far, I can wait for the market
to make a buying climax and then enter on the Anti. The trade may still fail, but it is at
least supported by a real pattern with a deﬁned risk point.
It is also interesting to consider where these trading patterns fall in the course of
the idealized market structure outlined in Chapter 2. In accumulation, we can buy failure
tests of the low of the range, especially if the higher time frame supports an advance. The
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c06 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:38 Printer: Hamilton Printing
188 TRADING STRATEGIES
breakout trades naturally belong at the transition between accumulation and markup.
The pullback variations are, of course, the ideal tools for trading both the markup and
markdown periods. The transitions from markup to distribution (and from markdown to
accumulation) are a bit more problematic. For example, we actively try to avoid having
positions within those areas until they are set to break out, and even catching the ex-
act end of the trending period may result in meager proﬁts as the market simply chops
sideways. Regardless, the Anti pattern is the ideal tool to catch these turns, and it is also
common for trends to end with a ﬁnal failure test at the highs.
The patterns in this chapter are more than a menu of trade setups to be used `al a
carte according to the trader’s whim. Rather, this simple set of trading patterns offers a
comprehensive tool kit for approaching market structure and price action in any market
and any time frame. Consider the cycle:
r Buying support in a range via failure tests (springs) near the bottom of the range.
r Entering in a base preceding a breakout.
r The actual breakout.
r The ﬁrst pullback following a breakout.
r Pullbacks as the new trend gains steam.
r The possibility for complex pullbacks as the trend matures. Monitoring the strength
of pullbacks gives insight into trend integrity.
r A possible failure test at the eventual high of the trend.
r An Anti at the high of the trend.
r Selling resistance near the previous trend extreme via failure tests (upthrusts).
r Entering early in anticipation of a breakdown through support.
A trader can trade this entire cycle, or can use these trades as signposts to monitor
the health of the market and its transition from one regime to another. Within this rela-
tively simple set of patterns lies the key to all price action and market structure. Properly
applied, this sequence is nothing less than a complete analytical methodology.
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c07 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:44 Printer: Hamilton Printing
CHAPTER 7
Tools for
Conﬁrmation
There are in fact four very signiﬁcant stumbling blocks in the way
of grasping the truth ... namely, the example of weak and unworthy
authority, longstanding custom, the feeling of the ignorant crowd,
and the hiding of our own ignorance while making a display of our
apparent knowledge.
—Roger Bacon
I
s more information always better? Some traders, when they are considering a trade,
will use multiple indicators and analytical tools, solicit opinions from other traders,
and even consider elements such as fundamentals that do not really have a bearing
on their time frame. This approach can lead to “paralysis by analysis” as so many fac-
tors are considered, with so many conﬂicting points of view, that the trader simply does
not know what to do. The justiﬁcation offered for this approach is that an ofﬁcer on a
battleﬁeld would want every possible piece of information, wouldn’t he? Perhaps not.
It might be better for the decision maker to have processed intelligence from veriﬁed
and trusted sources that has already been ﬁltered from the massive ﬂow of raw infor-
mation. In trading, the equivalent is to focus on a few simple tools that are completely
understood—depth of information, rather than breadth.
It is critical that traders understand the subtleties of every tool they use. They should
know how they react in every possible market environment, and furthermore, must un-
derstand the complex interactions between multiple tools. This may lead to an approach
that disregards a lot of information that many traders assume to be useful, but, for in-
stance, why would you use indicators that do not add to your analysis? Why would you
listen to news that is old news and is already fully priced into the market? Why would
you try to guess how complex fundamental factors might inﬂuence the price if you do not
have the skills to fully understand those fundamentals? Why would you solicit opinions
from traders who may trade with completely different styles and may be less competent
189
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c07 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:44 Printer: Hamilton Printing
190 TRADING STRATEGIES
and knowledgeable than you are? Traders do all of these things, but most of them do not
make sense. Limit your scope to tools that truly add value.
So far, we have looked at a number of trading patterns and templates that allow the
trader to trade in alignment with the dominant forces in the market and to take advantage
of the slight statistical edge that exists around some speciﬁc market structures. These
patterns are tradable on their own, in isolation, but they become more powerful when
placed in the context of the higher time frame and supported by price action on the lower
time frame. Though we have touched on this idea in other places, this chapter now offers
some concrete examples and suggestions for maximizing the power of the interaction
of these multiple time frames. It will also cover the use of a few speciﬁc indicators in
considerable detail; use this as a departure for your own work with your preferred tools
and indicators.
Next, we consider tools to quantify relationships between markets; a good under-
standing of the connections and interactions between various markets can be a powerful
tool for teasing out nonrandom price action from the random noise. This is not a subject
to be approached lightly, as it is possible to spend many years digging deeply into the
connections between various asset classes and individual markets. We will begin this
work by looking at some tools to quantify these relationships and some potential issues
that may arise when contemplating these cross-market relationships. Again, everything
in this chapter should be taken as a template and a suggestion for your own work and
exploration—adapt these ideas and make them your own.
THE MOVING AVERAGE—THE STILL CENTER
Many trading books will tell you to use a speciﬁc moving average like a 21-period expo-
nential or a 50-period simple moving average. Anytime anyone tells you to use a certain
average length, the logical question is: “Why that one and not another?” There is no magic
to any moving average—they are all pretty much created equal, which is to say that all
work sometimes and do not work other times. If you are viewing moving averages as sup-
port or resistance, or price crossing a moving average as a signiﬁcant signal, you might
want to reconsider your approach to these tools. There is great value in reducing every-
thing to simple elements, to ﬁrst principles, and then building the analytical structure
up from that foundation. To that end, Appendix B takes a deep look at the differences
between two commonly used moving average types and examines how they behave in
different market environments. Though this understanding might not be useful for all
traders, mastery rests on a perfect grasp of basic elements.
Ideas for Using Moving Averages
Traders have many ideas and approaches to using moving averages, but many of the
things that are supposed to happen around moving averages are based on market lore
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c07 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:44 Printer: Hamilton Printing
Tools for Conﬁrmation 191
and do not pass simple statistical tests. People will claim that certain averages are impor-
tant because “hedge funds buy there,” “everyone watches those averages,” or “it becomes
a self-fulﬁlling prophecy,” but it is extremely difﬁcult to support these claims with quanti-
tative tests. Tests of statistical tendencies around moving averages fail to ﬁnd that any av-
erage is objectively better than another, or in fact, that there is any veriﬁable edge around
these averages at all. Regardless, there are practical ways to use these tools in trading.
As a Trend Indicator One potentially useful application of moving averages is to
use them as conﬁrming trend indicators. For instance, when scanning many charts, a
quick glance at a moving average—which summarizes the price structure, smoothes out
the bumps, and highlights the overall trend—can give a quick read on the overall market
structure.
There are two broad ways to use moving averages as trend indicators, which can be
used separately or combined. The ﬁrst is very simple: when price spends a lot of time on
one side of a moving average, this suggests the market is trending in that direction; see
Figure 7.1 for an example. Note that price may occasionally dip to the average, or even
cross a bit to the other side, but it remains mostly above the average.
The second idea, which is closely related, is that a moving average will slope in the
direction of the trend. A ﬂat moving average is more indicative of a trading range, while
up-sloping and down-sloping averages suggest uptrends and downtrends. As Figure 7.2
FIGURE 7.1 Price Mostly on One Side of a Moving Average Suggests a Trend in That Direction
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c07 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:44 Printer: Hamilton Printing
192 TRADING STRATEGIES
FIGURE 7.2 The Three Moving Averages Indicate Three Diﬀerent Trends at This Spot
shows, this tool is very dependent on the length of the moving average chosen; in this
diagram, the three averages each suggest different trends at the same spot. This is not a
problem, for the market can actually be in an uptrend, downtrend, and trading range at
the same time—it depends on what time frame is being considered—but the trader must
understand these issues. Again, it is not necessary to use this as a mechanical tool—for
instance, by executing only at the precise points where the line shifts slopes. A trader
making decisions based off price structure will almost always ﬁnd entries before they
are conﬁrmed by a moving average.
Avoid Markets in Equilibrium Markets are usually in equilibrium, and at those
times markets are efﬁcient in the academic sense—random walks prevail. There is no
consistent edge possible in such an environment; it is not an exaggeration to say thatthe
essence of technical analysis is to identify markets that have a temporary imbalance of
buying and selling pressure, and to limit our trading to those environments.O n ew a y
to identify markets in equilibrium is that they tend to stay close to an average price
(moving average), which represents a rough area of consensus. If the market continues to
trade around that average, chopping back and forth on both sides of it, it is probably best
to move on and to look for better trading opportunities. This might seem like common
sense, but a rule like this can keep traders from making multiple attempts at trading a
ﬂat market.
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c07 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:44 Printer: Hamilton Printing
Tools for Conﬁrmation 193
FIGURE 7.3 Avoid Trading Markets That Chop Back and Forth on Both Sides of an Intermediate-
Term Moving Average
To be sure, nothing works all the time. Even random walk markets will show signiﬁ-
cant departures from moving averages; a signiﬁcant move away from a moving average is
not, in itself, sufﬁcient evidence to declare that a tradable buying and selling imbalance
exists. However, the absence of that condition virtually guarantees that an imbalance
does not exist, and markets that remain close to intermediate-term moving averages
almost always present challenging trading environments with no signiﬁcant edge. Fig-
ure 7.3 shows a period where Consolidated Edison, Inc. (NYSE: ED) traded back and
forth around a moving average with no clear trades to either direction. For most traders,
simply avoiding this type of price action can add to the bottom line, as many small losing
trades will be eliminated.
As a Reference for Trading Pullbacks Expecting a moving average to truly pro-
vide support and resistance is probably misguided, but thereis a valid way to use moving
averages as a crutch for trading pullbacks. Markets typically move by an alternation of
momentum moves and consolidations, and it is usually a bad idea to initiate a trade when
the market is overextended either to the upside or the downside in a momentum move.
In almost all cases, it is better to wait for the market to work off this condition and to
return to a short-term state of balance before entering in the pullback. It might seem to
be a joke, but using a moving average like this “keeps you from doing something stupid”
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c07 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:44 Printer: Hamilton Printing
194 TRADING STRATEGIES
FIGURE 7.4 Using a Moving Average as a Reference for Buying Pullbacks
Do not buy when price is far away from the average.
(i.e., buying or shorting an overextended market). A simple but effective trading rule
could be instituted that simply prevents you from buying or selling pullbacks that are far
away from a moving average, assuming that far away has been precisely deﬁned. It is
also worth considering that a moving average is a good reference in anormal trend; very
strong trends may not pull back as much. In general, it makes sense to build a trading
plan that ﬁrst addresses the most common situations that will be encountered, dealing
with more extraordinary trending environments later. Figure 7.4 shows an example of
some possible pullback entries at a moving average. Trade management and context are
important, as there is no inherent edge to simply executing a trade at the moving average.
Slope of a Moving Average as a Trend Indicator The slope of a moving average
is another subjective application that does not test out well in quantitative testing, but
it can be useful as a scanning tool or as a cue for the developing discretionary trader.
The concept is that the moving average’s slope can give conﬁrmation of trend direction,
with the time frame of the trend roughly corresponding to the time frame of the moving
average. Longer-term (100-period or more) moving averages will address longer-term
trends, while very short-term (less than 10-period) moving averages will give indications
for the shortest intervals on the chart. An important point is that an attentive trader will
almost always be able to identify inﬂection points based on price structure long before
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c07 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:44 Printer: Hamilton Printing
Tools for Conﬁrmation 195
FIGURE 7.5 Though the Slope of the Moving Average Does Capture the Trend, the Trend Change
Is Visible in Price Structure First
the moving average changes slope, as in Figure 7.5. It is probably a bad idea to ﬁlter trades
based on this criterion—for instance, taking long trades only when the average slopes
up—because the lag effect will cause you to miss many good trades at the beginning, but
you will be green-lighted to take all the losers at the end of a trend. Focus on learning to
read the price structure, but the slope of a moving average can be a useful aid, especially
when scanning many charts rapidly.
CHANNELS: EMOTIONAL EXTREMES
A moving average may give some idea of consensus, value, and relative rest. Properly
drawn channels deﬁne excursions from that area of consensus and may give some insight
into where the crowd’s emotional extremes lie. In most applications, this is the one and
only purpose of channels: to deﬁne meaningful extensions. In order to do this well and
consistently, the channels must be able to ﬂex and to adapt to the changing volatility
conditions of the underlying market. It should be obvious, but channels do not provide
any kind of actual barrier to prices. The idea of buying at a band or selling at a band, with
a few exceptions in highly mean-reverting instruments, is conceptually ﬂawed. A better
way for discretionary traders to use bands is to look for touches of or excursions outside
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c07 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:44 Printer: Hamilton Printing
196 TRADING STRATEGIES
the bands, and then to carefully monitor price action following those events, treating the
band as an alert level.
Probably the most commonly used channels are Bollinger bands, which are set at a
multiple of the standard deviation of price around an average of price. (Default settings
are usually two standard deviations around a 20-period SMA). As the market becomes
more volatile (as measured by standard deviation of price), the bands automatically
widen to accommodate the larger swings. Most books on Bollinger bands (for instance,
Kirkpatrick, 2006) claim that 68 percent of the values should fall within one standard
deviation of the average, about 96 percent within two standard deviations, and that vir-
tually all prices should fall within three standard deviations. Though this claim has been
repeated in book after book, simple empirical observation shows that this is not true.
First, prices are nowhere near normally distributed, so the rule of thumb for standard
deviations does not apply; over a large sample of markets, approximately 88 percent
(not 96 percent) of closes are within two Bollinger standard deviations of a 20-period
average. Second, standard deviation of price is not a meaningful measure, so the width
of the Bollinger bands does not track most accepted measures of volatility well.
Keltner channels were created by Chester Keltner, a grain trader in Chicago, but
most traders today use a modiﬁcation that is actually much closer to the Stoller Average
Range Channels (STARC). Regardless of terminology, the advantage of these channels
is that they respond to a simpler and more consistent measure of volatility: the range
of each bar. Also, since these channels use true range rather than simple range, they
can also be applied to data that are close-only (e.g., economic data, funds, or some cal-
culated indexes). They are simple, robust, and consistent: big bars = more volatility =
wider bands, avoiding many of the potential issues with Bollinger bands. Figures 7.6
and 7.7 show Bollinger bands and Keltner channels applied to the same weekly chart of
Wheat futures. Notice the typical “Bollinger balloon” effect of a large price change on the
Bollinger bands; the Keltner channels also respond to the increasing volatility, but they
do it in a much more measured and controlled way. As volatility contracts, Bollinger
bands tend to tighten very aggressively, and so they will give alerts on small price move-
ments out of these environments. This may or may not be desirable behavior, and traders
who use these bands must know how to adjust for these quirks.
Whichever type of channel is used, the critical behavior occurs when the price
bars engage the bands. It is important, then, that the bands be set at a level that is
meaningful—too close and they will give insigniﬁcant signals, but too far and they are
never touched. The Keltner channels that I use are set at a level that contains between
85 and 90 percent of all trading activity (the range of the bar, not just the close) across a
wide range of markets. Table 7.1 veriﬁes this claim empirically with an analysis of every
bar from a large test universe. For each of the 2,403,774 bars in that universe, two statis-
tics were recorded: “Inside” measures the percentage of the total range of all bars that
was inside the bands. “Free bars” are bars that are pushed to such a dramatic extreme
that the low of the bar is above the upper band, or the high of the bar is below the bottom
channel—the entire bar is outside the channel. These are rare, but potentially signiﬁcant,
events that can indicate a condition of extreme imbalance in the market.
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c07 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:44 Printer: Hamilton Printing
Tools for Conﬁrmation 197
FIGURE 7.6 Bollinger Bands on Weekly Wheat: Notice How Bands Expand and Contract Very
Quickly
FIGURE 7.7 By Comparison, Keltner Channels on Wheat Futures Are Much More Stable
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c07 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:44 Printer: Hamilton Printing
198 TRADING STRATEGIES
TABLE 7.1 Excursion Stats for 2.25 ATR Modiﬁed Keltner Channels
Mean Min Max
Large-Cap Stocks (496 stocks)
Inside 87.7% 67.0% 100.0%
Free bars 3.4% 0.0% 11.7%
Small-Cap Stocks (500 stocks)
Inside 85.4% 36.0% 96.2%
Free bars 4.3% 0.2% 21.2%
Futures (16 contracts)
Inside 85.9% 77.8% 92.5%
Free bars 3.8% 0.7% 6.4%
Forex (9 pairs)
Inside 89.8% 87.8% 92.0%
Free bars 2.3% 1.5% 3.7%
Randomly Generated Data (7 series)
Inside 86.8% 85.8% 87.7%
Free bars 3.8% 3.3% 4.4%
“Inside” records the percentage of the total trading range that is inside the bands.
“Free bars” are the percentage of all bars that are completely outside the bands.
Min and Max show the lowest and highest stat for individual instruments (i.e., individual stocks,
futures markets, etc.) in the sample classes.
Ideas for Using Channels
As with most technical tools, traders have developed many nuances and techniques for
using bands or channels. Some traders use points where price engages the bands as deci-
sion points, either in a quasi or a purely systematic form with other supporting factors. In
some markets and time frames, some bands do show a strong enough statistical tendency
to support such a plan, but other traders use them as inputs into a broad, discretionary
process. Regardless, it is always helpful to know that you have a head start and are plac-
ing trades aligned with an underlying tendency in the market.
Fade Move Outside the Channels Some traders love to fade markets, specializing
in buying weakness or shorting into strength. Bands or channels can be a vital crite-
rion in such a plan. In many markets, there actually is a slight statistical edge to fading
moves to the upper or lower Keltner channel, and it is possible to replicate this ten-
dency with Bollinger bands if some adjustments are made. Fading makes sense only if
the market is truly extended, if the rubber band is stretched and could be ready to snap
back. Traders who fade markets that are in relative equilibrium will accumulate a steady
stream of losses. A good rule of thumb is to not consider any fade trade unless the market
is extended beyond the bands on whichever time frame you are trading. Remember, risk
management is essential in this kind of trade, as the band does not present any kind of
actual barrier. There is always the psychological tendency to attach too much meaning
to any line on a chart; this is why traders focus on moving averages, bands, or even whole
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c07 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:44 Printer: Hamilton Printing
Tools for Conﬁrmation 199
numbers (e.g., where grid lines fall on charts). The market can do anything, however, and
there are no lines on charts that provide any ﬁrm barriers to price. Blindly fading bands
with no risk management plan could easily result in staggering losses.
Enter on a Pullback from the Bands A market overextended outside the band
will, eventually, reverse back inside the bands. At this point, it is often possible to initiate
a trade in the direction of the original band touch. Buying somewhere near the middle
of the bands after the market touches the upper bands or shorting after it touches the
bottom is often a good trade. This trade could potentially be executed mechanically, but
many traders will ﬁnd best results using this condition to identify markets primed to
move and then executing those trades with discretion. For a discretionary trader, this
is a useful illustration of quantifying a fundamental principle of price behavior through
the structure of an indicator. Figure 7.8 shows examples of both fading moves to the
band (marked A) and entering pullbacks on the moving average after the band has been
touched (B). (In this case, the entry condition for pullbacks required a close outside the
band, rather than a simple touch.)
FIGURE 7.8 Fading Closes Outside the Keltner Channel (Marked A) or Entering at the Moving
Average (Marked B)
Both of these are reliable trades that capitalize on basic elements of price behavior.
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c07 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:44 Printer: Hamilton Printing
200 TRADING STRATEGIES
Slide Outside the Bands Markets normally move in alternating patterns of impulse
and consolidation; the opposing trades of fading at the band and reentering in the middle
of the bands capture this principle well. This is the pattern when the market machinery
is operating normally. Strong buying (demand) eventually raises prices to a level where
supply is adequate to overcome that buying pressure and the market drifts down. Af-
ter a period of rest, buyers reassert themselves and push the market into another leg.
However, this cycle can and does short-circuit, and it is also important to be aware of
the patterns that occur in the distortions: normal strength results in a buyable pullback,
or normal weakness results in a shortable pullback, but extreme strength or weakness
usually indicates exhaustion. This is something to be aware of because amateurs often
see the strongest moves and want to enter into the next pullbacks. Professionals realize
that a very strong move often means the party is over and it is time to take proﬁts and
stand aside.
One pattern that indicates an exceptionally weak or strong market is shown in
Figure 7.9. When a market presses into the upper or lower band and stays there, this
is indicative of a one-sided market with extreme pressure. The absence of any real
FIGURE 7.9 A Market Pressing into One of the Channels Is Indicative of a very Strong Imbalance
This is also usually a diﬃcult trading environment.
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c07 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:44 Printer: Hamilton Printing
Tools for Conﬁrmation 201
pattern makes it very difﬁcult to trade this type of market. There are no pullbacks, and
this structure is often a potential climax pattern on the higher time frame, so there is
the ever-present possibility of a severe snapback. Many traders will be inclined to con-
tinually fade such a move because it is very difﬁcult to ﬁnd with-trend entries, but this is
usually the wrong plan. The best course of action is almost always to have no position
unless you are managing risk and proﬁts in preexisting positions.
Spike through Both Bands Well-trending markets tend to be controlled, with more
or less proportional actions and reactions. Another way this standard pattern can break
down is for a market to make an extremely sharp move through one side of the band
that is immediately reversed and then spikes clear through the other band. (See Figure
7.10.) As a general rule of thumb, whenever a market makes a sharp move in one direc-
tion immediately followed by an equally sharp move in the other direction, the normal
expectation should be for that market to spend some time consolidating and oscillating
in a series of smaller swings around a central price. This will usually result in a chart
pattern that looks something like the classic triangle pattern. Remember that a big move
FIGURE 7.10 A Spike through the Upper Band Immediately Followed by a Spike through the
Lower Band Usually Leads to a Triangle-Type Consolidation—Avoid This Environment
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c07 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:44 Printer: Hamilton Printing
202 TRADING STRATEGIES
up followed by a big move down usually leads to a triangle, and this is a difﬁcult trading
environment that is best avoided.
INDICATORS: MACD
One of the recurring themes of this book is that traders must have a complete under-
standing of any tool they use. It is not constructive to use a tool that is simply a myste-
rious wiggly line without really understanding what it is saying about price action. With
this in mind, Appendix B takes a deep look at how the modiﬁed MACD indicator is
constructed, and how it reacts to speciﬁc price patterns. If you have background and
experience with this or a similar tool, this material may offer a new perspective on the
use of this indicator.
Though I have found this tool useful, many traders will have other favorite indica-
tors that they will prefer to use. This is ﬁne, and many of the applications of the mod-
iﬁed MACD I discuss can be applied to other momentum indicators. However, be sure
you understand what your indicator is really measuring. In general, most indicators fall
into two broad categories: momentum indicators such as MACD, rate of change (ROC),
and Momentum, or overbought/oversold indicators such as the Stochastic oscillator and
the Relative Strength Index (RSI). The MACD is a momentum indicator and these tech-
niques can be adapted for other momentum indicators, but do not try to apply them to
overbought/oversold indicators. Many people do not think beyond the fact that their in-
dicator has two moving lines. As always, think deeply and understand the nuances of the
tools you are using.
Basic Interpretation of the MACD
Let’s turn our attention to some practical applications of the MACD, and how it might
be used in actual trading. Formally and precisely, the MACD measures the changes in
momentum of prices, but there tends to be some persistence in momentum, so it is ac-
ceptable to treat the MACD as a proxy measure of momentum. (That is to say, an increase
in the rate of change of momentum will likely lead to higher momentum and vice versa.)
Most of the beneﬁt from using this tool comes from its ability to pick out inﬂections that
might not be clearly visible on price charts, to identify swings that are more or less likely
to have continuation after consolidation, and to mark overextended points where the
momentum is potentially exhausted. There are a few speciﬁc applications and patterns
that can be applied to this tool or most other momentum indicators.
Fast Line Pop One of the core ideas of technical analysis, and indeed of fundamen-
tal analysis, is that markets move to new prices in response to new information. This
movement usually takes the form of a series of alternating waves and retracements.
Simply put, a strong momentum move will usually result in another move in the same
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c07 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:44 Printer: Hamilton Printing
Tools for Conﬁrmation 203
direction following a period of consolidation. This pattern is the foundation of market
structure, but it is also possible to use a momentum indicator to deﬁne these conditions
precisely. The most important concept here is that momentum precedes price, meaning
that a sharp momentum move in a market pressing to new highs will usually be followed
by higher prices after a consolidation, and the reverse is true to the downside. Be clear
on this point: a momentum indicator will not somehow lead prices—this is not possi-
ble because the indicators are calculated from past prices. There are no true leading
indicators in technical analysis; what does lead price is a strong move in the market it-
self, not the reading on an indicator.
One of the simplest ways to use a momentum indicator is to look for it to make
a signiﬁcant new high or low, and then to enter the pullback following that new mo-
mentum extreme. One complication is that the MACD is an unbounded indicator, so it
is not possible to set ﬁxed reference levels. In practice, it is enough to use rough intu-
itive guidelines created by comparing the indicator to its own recent history. A more
systematic approach could, for instance, express the indicator’s value as a percentile of
a look-back window, and perhaps enter retracements following an excursion into either
the top or the bottom decile. If you are just starting to look at this indicator, use the
40-bar history as a starting point, but you should be able to read the indicator without
precise reference to this history very quickly. Again, the momentum pop on the MACD is
just a visual representation of information that is already in the price bars, but it can be
a useful conﬁrmation in some situations.
Figure 7.11 shows the MACD applied to weekly bars of the Financial Sector SPDR
(NYSE: XLF). At point A the market had made a strong down move, which also pushed
the MACD line to a signiﬁcant new low relative to its recent history. (Do not focus too
much attention on the fact that it is a new low on this particular chart. The chart bound-
aries are arbitrary.) After an extended consolidation, the market made new lows into
the point marked B, at which time the MACD again made a lower low. Following more
consolidation, the market traded lower until the sharp reversal pushed the MACD to sig-
niﬁcant new highs (C). This upside momentum should have been a warning to shorts to
not look to add short exposure into the next pullback. In this case, the market staged a
substantial multiyear rally from this point.
This is an important concept, so let’s review a more complex example, this time using
a 5-minute chart of the E-mini S&P 500 futures. At the point marked A in Figure 7.12, the
MACD conﬁrmed the price weakness by making a signiﬁcant new low, and prices slid
lower with scarcely any consolidation. The action into 11:00 AM was perhaps slightly
suggestive of a selling climax, so very short-term shorts would have been well advised
to take proﬁts into the small ﬂush. Point B raises an important issue: is this a signiﬁcant
new high on the MACD? Perhaps so, as this is the highest reading that has been seen
so far in this trading day, but there were other considerations (on the higher time frame)
that suggested continued weakness. What if a trader has misread this MACD line and had
entered a long trade? A losing trade would have been the result, but losing trades are a
normal part of any trading plan. If the risk on this trade had been managed appropriately,
the loss would have been small. Points C and D both show new price lows on the day,
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c07 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:44 Printer: Hamilton Printing
204 TRADING STRATEGIES
FIGURE 7.11 New Extremes on the MACD Precede New Price Extremes
FIGURE 7.12 The MACD In a More Complex Environment
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c07 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:44 Printer: Hamilton Printing
Tools for Conﬁrmation 205
accompanied by at least marginal new lows on the MACD, but it is clear that the charac-
ter of the market has changed somewhat. Though there may have been money short-
ing into retracements following these two points, they are not examples of the best
possible trades.
Fast Line Behavior in Climax Consolidations or pullbacks following climaxes are
not high-probability trades for trend continuation. Reversals or long, extended consoli-
dations are more likely following these points. Though it is not always possible to distin-
guish a climax from good strength or weakness, it is important to keep this consideration
in mind. If an extremely large momentum move emerges that is out of all proportion to
the recent history of the market, be very careful of entering retracements. This is a case
where the details of the mathematical construction of the MACD become signiﬁcant. It is
an unbounded indicator, so extreme market conditions can push it to theoretically inﬁ-
nite levels. In these extreme situations, the indicator will rescale so that recent history is
highly compressed in a tight wiggly line. Rather than trying to read any signiﬁcance into
that line, accept that it shows that the market has made such an extreme move that the
indicator should be disregarded.
Figure 7.13 shows this principle in action on a daily chart of Silver futures. After
pressing to new highs, the market collapsed in a very sharp sell-off at point A. Note
FIGURE 7.13 It Is Important to Understand the MACD’s Reaction to a Climax
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c07 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:44 Printer: Hamilton Printing
206 TRADING STRATEGIES
that the MACD fast line deﬁnitely made a signiﬁcant new low, but this was clearly a
climactic condition. Naive application of the MACD might have had a trader entering
short in the ﬁrst bounce off those lows, and a disciplined proﬁt-taking plan would actually
have locked in some proﬁts in this case. The point is clear: this is not a reliable pattern to
short. Consider also that a bounded indicator (e.g., stochastics) would simply have gone
to the boundary and stayed there, rather than making this dramatic pop. Traders who use
the MACD on intraday charts will see these types of distortions frequently if the markets
they trade have large overnight gaps. It is usually best to disregard the indicator until the
market has settled down and more normal momentum conditions emerge.
Fast Line Divergence If the best pullbacks are preceded by the MACD fast line
making a signiﬁcant new high (or low in the case of a downtrend), then it follows logically
that pullbacks that are not set up by a new high or low on the MACD are less likely to
have good continuation. This is the concept of momentum divergence: a market makes a
new high in prices that is not accompanied by a new high on the indicator, and vice versa
to the downside. Figure 7.14 shows clean momentum divergences in Wheat futures. At
A, price pushes to a new high, but the MACD fast line is clearly lower. At point B, prices
FIGURE 7.14 Momentum Divergences in Wheat Futures
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c07 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:44 Printer: Hamilton Printing
Tools for Conﬁrmation 207
drive to a dramatic new low (selling climax?), and the MACD barely moves below the
previous low. C sets up yet another example of a divergence, as price makes a new high
unaccompanied by a new high on the MACD. Last, D shows a new price low against a
higher low on the MACD. In all of these cases, the momentum divergence would suggest
that the dominant group in the market may be losing their hold and that a reversal is
more likely than continuation. Any book on technical analysis will show you that this is
the way divergence is supposed to work. There is only one small problem: divergences
fail about as often as they work.
Figure 7.15 shows a darker side of momentum divergence. At least four momentum
divergences set up against this trend, all of which failed. Any extended trend will set up
multiple momentum divergences, most of which will fail. This is, in fact, one working
deﬁnition of a trend: just as a trend breaks support or resistance, trends will also roll
over momentum divergences. Traders using these divergences to set up countertrend
trades will incur steady losses, but paying attention to these divergences can be equally
damaging to traders who are only trading with the trend if they use them as warning signs
to exit their positions prematurely. This does not invalidate the concept of momentum
divergence, but it does highlight the importance of having a trading plan that respects
FIGURE 7.15 Strong Trends Result in Failed Momentum Divergences
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c07 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:44 Printer: Hamilton Printing
208 TRADING STRATEGIES
the reality of market action. Clearly deﬁne how and when you will use momentum diver-
gences, and, if you will actually set up trades using them, have precise plans for managing
those trades. A skilled countertrend trader could likely have executed shorts on each of
the momentum divergences in Figure 7.15 and emerged at the right edge of the chart with
only small losses, but this is a difﬁcult way to make a living.
This tool, like any other momentum indicator, measures potential divergences be-
tween subsequent swings in the market. If there are no swings, there is nothing to mea-
sure so we cannot have divergence. Many times, markets will set up patterns that re-
semble valid divergences, but there is no retracement in between the two points being
measured. Consider the divergences marked in Figure 7.16. Though the indicator shows
the classic patterns of divergence, at the corresponding points on the price bars the mar-
ket was simply sliding higher.
A few further reﬁnements will wrap up our consideration of divergences. It is possi-
ble to see momentum divergences without referring to the indicator, especially after the
trader internalizes many patterns and variations of charts. There are subtle relationships
between the length of swings, angle of swings (a visual indication of rate of change,
assuming that vertical scaling is consistent), and the speciﬁc formations at the turn of
FIGURE 7.16 These Are Not Valid Divergences
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c07 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:44 Printer: Hamilton Printing
Tools for Conﬁrmation 209
swings that can reveal momentum conditions to the trained eye. The MACD fast line di-
vergence is a crutch, but it is a useful crutch, especially for new and developing traders.
Also, divergence is often a temporary and ﬂeeting condition. A divergence obviously does
not mean the market will never make another move in the same direction, so give some
consideration to the timing and duration of divergences, which will vary depending on
the speciﬁc indicator used to deﬁne them. With this MACD, a divergence can usually be
assumed to have reset or to have fulﬁlled its expectation when one of three conditions oc-
curs: price returns to an intermediate-term (e.g., 20-period) moving average, the MACD
fast line crosses the zero line from the divergent state, or an extended period of time
(10+ bars) elapses. If you have executed a countertrend trade based on a divergence, be
protective of any open proﬁts once any of these conditions emerges.
Last, there are a few logical inconsistencies to consider when trading divergences.
One of the most important is that since pivot highs are matched to indicator values in an
uptrend, we are comparing the highs of the bars to the indicator value; in a downtrend,
the lows of the price bars are compared to the indicator value. This problem is thathighs
and lows of price bars are being compared to an indicator that is calculated from the
closes of the price bars; the indicator is completely blind to any information encoded in
the extreme points of the bars. There are a number of potential solutions to address this
problem. A simple one would be to calculate the indicator off the midpoint of the bar
(average of high and low of the bar), or off the average of the high, low, and close (this is
called the typical price in some analytical systems). As a much more extreme solution,
you could calculate separate indicators for bullish and bearish divergence, basing the
tool for bearish divergence off the highs of the price bars and the other off the lows. A
word of warning is in order, too: if you do something like this, make sure the extra infor-
mation gained from the tool compensates for the additional complications—simplicity is
greatly to be desired.
Beware of Overextended Fast Line Entries Most people are familiar with the
story that old man J. P. Morgan, when asked about the stock market, sagely replied, “It
will ﬂuctuate.” Though probably said tongue-in-cheek, truer words have never been spo-
ken. This should be your baseline expectation for any market: it will ﬂuctuate. Extreme
highs will be followed by sell-offs and vice versa. A trading strategy that consistently buys
at extreme highs and sells at extreme lows is likely to be painful; a simple MACD-based
rule can help us avoid many of these situations.
The rule is, very simply, to try to avoid buying when the fast line is extended into
highs and try to avoid selling when it is extended into low territory. Though not strictly
correct, many traders ﬁnd it useful to think of the fast line as showing potential or stored
energy that can be used to power the market’s next move. When the line is dramatically
extended to the upside, it could indicate that the move is already overdone and poten-
tially primed for a small reversal. Though it is difﬁcult to quantify this tendency into a
precise rule set, many traders ﬁnd that their results improve with the addition of a rule
that prevents them from buying when the line is extended to the upside or shorting when
it is extended to the downside.
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c07 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:44 Printer: Hamilton Printing
210 TRADING STRATEGIES
Fast Line Drive and Hold Probably no writer has done as much as Tom DeMark
to foster an objective, scientiﬁc approach to trading with indicators. His work demands
careful study; interested readers could start with his 1997 New Market Timing Tech-
niques. One very important point he makes that is often overlooked by many traders is
that an indicator’s ability to go into overbought territory is often evidence of real strength
in the market, and the reverse is true for oversold readings. Though the MACD does not
have overbought/oversold levels and is not even properly an overbought/oversold indi-
cator, many traders will initially be inclined to fade extreme moves on the indicator. This
is natural, especially for traders who have some familiarity with stochastics, RSI, or a
handful of other common indicators, but it is important to realize that one of the com-
mon patterns of the MACD is that the fast line will go into overbought territory in a strong
trend and stay there for an extended period of time. The inability of the fast line to back
off is a reﬂection of the conviction behind the price movement and should not be taken
as an indication to start looking for countertrend trades. Figure 7.17 shows yet another
example from Silver futures. In this case, a very strong uptrend pegs the MACD fast line
in potentially overextended territory, and it stays there for much of the move.
FIGURE 7.17 A Strong Trend Will Peg the MACD Fast Line
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c07 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:44 Printer: Hamilton Printing
Tools for Conﬁrmation 211
One easy way to avoid fading markets in situations like this is to look for divergence
only after the fast line touches or comes very near to the zero line. This criterion is
another expression of a point made earlier, which is that divergences can be valid only
between different swings in the market. If there are no swings and the market is simply in
a strong, extended push (as in Figure 7.17), then there really can be no valid information
from the fast line of the MACD. In nearly all cases, the fast line will retreat to the zero line
in the presence of an accompanying countertrend swing in price, and these are precisely
the types of structures that can set up valid divergences.
Fast Line Hook A turn in the fast line can often be the ﬁrst indication of emerging
momentum, especially when the market is poised at an inﬂection point. This is a case
where a very sensitive indicator can sometimes seem to lead price because it is able to
ﬁlter out the most important aspects of the price action. Figure 7.18 shows short entries
in Freeport-McMoRan (NYSE: FCX) that were generated according to the following rule
set: enter short on the ﬁrst bar whose close causes the MACD fast line to turn down
after prices have penetrated below the lower band and assuming there is no momentum
divergence. (The inverse of this rule set could be applied to generate longs, but there are
FIGURE 7.18 Shorts Generated by a Systematic Application of the MACD
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c07 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:44 Printer: Hamilton Printing
212 TRADING STRATEGIES
no penetrations of the upper channel on this chart.) Though every trade on this chart
would have resulted in a win, there are a few points to consider: First, and obviously,
you should be inherently suspicious of any carefully chosen example in a book. Second,
these entries would have been on theclose of the bars, so, while still proﬁtable, they may
not be as good as they look at ﬁrst glance. It is very easy to see a short entry on a large
down bar and fail to realize that the entry was actually made near the low of that bar.
(Also, depending on how you deﬁne divergence, the last trade on the chart may or may
not have been permitted.) Regardless, this example shows how we can start to put some
of these ideas together into simple rule sets, and how the turn of the fast line can provide
precise entry points.
Slope of the Slow Line So far, our attention has focused on the fast line of the
MACD, and for good reason. Most traders ﬁnd that nearly all of the value of the indicator
is in the fast line, but the slow line can also provide another useful layer of information.
The slow line is nothing more than a 16-period simple moving average of the fast line,
so it has all of the quirks and idiosyncrasies of any moving average. In the MACD, the
slope of the slow line is a good proxy for intermediate-term momentum, perhaps over 10
to 20 bars. At ﬁrst glance, the slow line appears to have less noise and fewer false moves
than the fast line, but this is just a reﬂection of the smoothing and lag of the slow line,
which also will miss many signals that appear on the fast line.
In general, it is probably best to be suspicious of trades that set up against the slope
of the slow line if the slow line has been extended and has turned back toward the zero
line. Figure 7.19 shows two examples in Macy’s Inc. (NYSE: M): traders initiating longs
after the slow line turned down would have been frustrated as the market entered a
more extended period of consolidation. Consider this to be, for practical purposes, a
form of momentum divergence. After a period of time, the divergence works itself off
and the trend is free to continue in the original direction. This commonly occurs later in
an extended trend, and is often accompanied by a complex consolidation on the chart.
Position of the Slow Line The position of the slow line relative to the zero refer-
ence line is also signiﬁcant. On one hand, it is nothing more than a type of trend indicator.
Since the slow line is an average of the fast line, for the slow line to be far above zero,
the fast line must have spent a longer time above the zero line. The only way for the fast
line to get far above zero and to stay there is for the market to have made an extended
move to the upside. In this context, the position of the slow line is not incredibly use-
ful because it is simply another conﬁrming trend indicator that suffers from the typical
problems that plague any quantitative measure of trend.
On the other hand, disagreement between the fast and slow lines can highlight or
conﬁrm pullbacks in prices. For instance, if the slow line is extended above zero but the
fast line pulls back below the zero line, it often makes sense to be on the lookout for
long entries. The reverse setup applies for shorting, of course. This is, to some extent,
an arbitrary setup and condition, as changing the indicator parameters would give signif-
icantly different signal points on the market, but there is real value here. This condition
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c07 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:44 Printer: Hamilton Printing
Tools for Conﬁrmation 213
FIGURE 7.19 Avoid Buying When the Slow Line Has Been Extended Upward and Has Now
Turned Down
often highlights a structural tension in the market where the short-term momentum, as
measured by the fast line, is in conﬂict with the longer-term momentum measured by the
slow line. Figure 7.20 shows the results of combining the fast line hook entry with this
condition on a daily chart of Lean Hog futures. This is not intended to be a complete me-
chanical trading system, though a system could be built on this concept. Also consider,
in Figure 7.20, the fast line hook entries (not marked) that were skipped. At the very
least, the MACD provides some powerful clues about market structure, momentum, and
price action.
MULTIPLE TIME FRAME ANALYSIS
Multiple time frame analysis provides another layer of depth and richness to market
analysis. It can place patterns in one time frame in the context of other time frames to
better identify those spots where the patterns are more likely to have arisen due to an
actual imbalance in the market rather than as a result of random chance. Many traders
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c07 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:44 Printer: Hamilton Printing
214 TRADING STRATEGIES
FIGURE 7.20 Fast Line Hook Entries Qualiﬁed with Fast/Slow Line Spread
assume that higher time frames are more signiﬁcant; for instance, that patterns on the
weekly chart are more important than patterns on 5-minute charts. This is not exactly
true—structures on different time frames can take control at any time, and one of the
major tasks of analysis is to identify what time frame and what structure are the domi-
nant factors in a particular market at any point in time.
There are spots where price action may be completely dictated by what happens on
a very short time frame, for instance, 1- or 3-minute charts, and other times when the
most important factor might be a level that is visible on weekly or monthly charts. We
can usually identify a dominant structure or set of structures on one time frame, and
can often watch as control is essentially passed from one time frame to another. For
instance, perhaps a resistance level is tested multiple times on the 1-minute chart, and
then is broken cleanly with a clear consolidation just below the level. At this moment,
the 1-minute chart would be in control, but perhaps this breakout happened at the turn
of a pullback on the 5-minute chart. We could then say that the pullback on the 5-minute
chart and the subsequent trend leg have taken control as the 5-minute chart becomes
the dominant time frame. Perhaps the market eventually runs into a new resistance area
on the 30-minute chart, at which point we could identify that as the dominant technical
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c07 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:44 Printer: Hamilton Printing
Tools for Conﬁrmation 215
structure. This discussion could apply without any loss of generality to daily/weekly/
monthly or to any other set of time frames, but the most important point is to avoid
that naive assumption that higher time frames are always more important. Work in-
stead to identify the dominant technical structures and to understand what time frame
has control.
There are two broad areas to this study: the impact of lower time frames on higher
time frames and the power of higher time frame structures to shape price action and mar-
ket structure on lower time frames. In practical terms, higher time frame considerations
can add conﬁdence to trades, ﬁlter other trades entirely, or help to set targets for trades.
Lower time frames can help to add precise entry points for bigger, higher time frame
patterns, and lower time frame price action can suggest whether support and resistance
are more likely to hold or to break on higher time frames. This is an oversimpliﬁca-
tion, but these factors are the core understanding of how most traders use multiple time
frame analysis.
This is a difﬁcult subject to teach because traders often attempt to move to multi-
ple time frames before they understand the structures and implications of a single time
frame. There is some justiﬁcation for this attempt—patterns become much more power-
ful when seen in the context of multiple time frames, and a few simple tools can greatly
increase the probability of winning trades. However, it is impossible to develop the intu-
ition and skills needed to comprehend multiple time frames unless you can proﬁciently
read the chart of a single time frame. It is important to fully understand the individual
building blocks before trying to create elaborate structures.
The situation is complicated further because much of the written material on this
subject lacks clarity. The trend seems to be either toward indicator-based oversimpliﬁ-
cation (e.g., look for long trades while an indicator applied to a higher time frame shows
that the higher time frame is in an uptrend) or toward obfuscation and confusion. Nei-
ther is good. Multiple time frame trading cannot easily be reduced to a simple rule set,
but there are some commonalities and structures that occur over and over again. This
section examines a few recurrent patterns and concepts, and lays a foundation for fur-
ther exploration.
Lower Time Frame Structures within Higher Time
Frame Context
Earlier in this book, I outlined a useful, but rigid, three-time-frame structure in which the
trading time frame was supported by both lower and higher time frames. “Lower time
frame” always refers to the time frame below the one being traded, and “higher
time frame” always refers to the time frame above the one being traded, with each time
frame usually related to its neighbor by a factor between 3 and 5. For now, let’s leave
that structure behind for a minute and simply consider two time frames, a higher and a
lower, in relation to each other, without designating one speciﬁc trading time frame.
To understand higher time frame inﬂuences on lower time frames, ﬁrst consider what
price patterns create the highest-probability trades on a single time frame. There could be
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c07 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:44 Printer: Hamilton Printing
216 TRADING STRATEGIES
some debate, but good places to start would be mean reversion in overextended markets,
especially following climax moves; the interface between pullbacks and new trend legs,
or the point where new with-trend momentum emerges out of a pullback; higher time
frame drives to clear target areas; and failure tests at the extremes of a range, ideally
with signs of accumulation or distribution. In the presence of one of these formations on
the higher time frame, lower time frame price action and market structure will be molded
as prices inexorably move toward a resolution of the higher time frame pattern. A few
examples will help to clarify these vital concepts.
Higher Time Frame Mean Reversion One of the main problems in technical anal-
ysis is distinguishing exhaustion from strength. Exhaustion is indicative of overextended
moves that will soon reverse; real strength (or weakness) occurs with moves that should
have continuation in the same direction. If it were always possible to tell one from the
other, we would always know whether to fade moves or to enter pullbacks for continua-
tion, but, of course, it is not possible to make these distinctions every time. Though there
are characteristics associated with each, there are also many similarities and even our
best tools work within the laws of probability. There is no certainty in trading; the best
we can hope for is to ﬁnd something that will give a slight, reliable bias or tilt. Some type
of well-calibrated band or channel—for instance, the Keltner channels I use and discuss
in this work—can provide a good visual and quantitative reference for overextension. On
a single time frame, you would not want to make a standard practice of buying strength
above the upper band or shorting weakness below the lower band.
Figure 7.21 shows a pullback on daily Wheat futures that might have been buyable,
taken out of context: the market consolidated after a strong upthrust, put in a series
of smaller-range bars, and eventually showed a return of upside momentum at the spot
marked on the chart. However, the weekly chart shows a long tail and a clear exhaustion
above the channel, greatly reducing the attractiveness of the potential long entry on the
daily chart. Many traders think that a good analytical system will get them into more win-
ning trades, but equally valuable is a system that will reduce the number of losing trades.
Being aware of higher time frame overextension and potential exhaustion is one tool that
can help traders avoid trades that immediately fail and collapse under the force of higher
time frame mean reversion. (Note that in all of these charts the left pane expands on the
highlighted section of the right pane. The lower time frame is in the left pane, the higher
time frame in the right.)
Figure 7.22 shows another example, this time in the broad U.S. equities market. At
the end of the daily chart, an aggressive trader could have justiﬁed taking a shot at a
short. True, this was not the best possible trade setup, but the market had just com-
pleted a sloppy complex pullback after making new lows, and had been locked in a
strong downtrend for many quarters. However, the weekly chart again puts this trade
in context. After three pushes down, the last of which was on a glaring momentum diver-
gence (i.e., price made a new low and the MACD fast line was unable to do so), it would
have been unrealistic to expect a clean short. There are two valuable lessons here: First,
the weekly chart does not clearly support a long trade, but it did offer enough upside
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c07 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:44 Printer: Hamilton Printing
Tools for Conﬁrmation 217
FIGURE 7.21 Exhaustion on the Weekly Chart Suggests Passing on This Buy Signal
FIGURE 7.22 Several Factors on the Weekly Chart Contradict a Potential Short on the Daily
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c07 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:44 Printer: Hamilton Printing
218 TRADING STRATEGIES
FIGURE 7.23 Why Short under a Bull Flag on the Daily Chart?
evidence to negate a potential short setup on the lower time frame. In this case, a set
of conditions that might not have fully supported a long entry were enough to justify
not taking a potential short setup. Second, most of the trades that are contradicted by
higher time frames are also not excellent setups on one time frame. To some extent,
focusing on the geometry of a single time frame will also wrap in some of the multiple
time frame factors, though there is still valuable information to be gleaned from analysis
of neighboring time frames.
Higher time frame considerations are not limited to providing ﬁlters to skip trades;
sometimes they also can be motivation enough to justify trade entries. Figure 7.23 shows
LULU, a market-leading stock in February 2011, extended above the upper band on the
weekly chart, again with momentum divergence on the MACD. The tight consolidation
on the daily chart might potentially be a place for aggressive longs to consider adding
to positions or entering new positions. Looking only at the daily chart, we would never
consider shorting under such a consolidation, because a high and tight ﬂag is usually in-
dicative of real conviction from buyers; furthermore, shorting an extremely strong mar-
ket leader in any context is usually a recipe for pain. It is far better to spend your time
and mental energy ﬁguring out how to buy those market leaders and how to short lag-
gards, in most cases. However, in this case, the weekly chart provided another layer of
information, and the clear overextension made it possible to justify a quick short un-
der the little range on the daily chart. There is also another lesson here: after a longer
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c07 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:44 Printer: Hamilton Printing
Tools for Conﬁrmation 219
FIGURE 7.24 The Higher Time Frame Suggests That the Lower Time Frame Short Will Be Diﬃcult
pullback, this stock spent some time consolidating and eventually headed much higher.
Swing traders cannot be greedy. Your job is to take what opportunity the market offers
and to be quick to realize when the trade is over.
These examples have focused on longer time frames, but the same principles apply
to much shorter time frames as well. Figure 7.24 shows 5- and 30-minute charts of the
USDJPY in the early evening (New York time) on March 16, 2011. The 5-minute chart
shows a structure that could potentially be shortable for at least a retest of recent lows,
though the presence of a selling climax, indicated by the overextension past the lower
band, should give shorts pause for concern. In this case, the 30-minute chart provides
context that is not as clearly visible on the 5-minute chart. The market is drastically
overextended beyond the lower band on the higher time frame; this usually happens in
response to a signiﬁcant exogenous shock—in this case the aftermath of the 2011 T¯ohoku
earthquake in Japan.
In a situation like this, you may still choose to take the short trade, but you have
to realize that the character of the trade, especially if you are wrong, will be different.
There is a much higher probability of a dramatic failure and reversal when the market
is overextended on the higher time frame, so a trade taken under these conditions has
a completely different risk proﬁle. Skip the trade altogether, take it and manage the risk
with a tighter stop, or choose to get out at the ﬁrst sign you might be wrong—these are
all acceptable alternatives. What is not acceptable is ignoring the clear message of the
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c07 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:44 Printer: Hamilton Printing
220 TRADING STRATEGIES
higher time frame extension and taking an unnecessary large loss as you continue to
short into the mean-reverting higher time frame.
Higher Time Frame Pullbacks To understand the effects of higher time frame
pullbacks on the trading time frame, ﬁrst review some of the characteristics that deﬁne
high-probability pullbacks on a single time frame:
r Presence of a good impulse setting up further continuation.
r Market is not overextended.
r Market is not on the third (or later) trend leg.
r Absence of momentum divergence.
r Absence of buying or selling climax.
r Pullbacks show generally lower activity and volume than the trend legs.
These conditions and patterns, when they appear on the higher time frame, can provide
motivation for and add conﬁdence to trades on lower time frames.
Figure 7.25 shows a pattern on the daily chart of Crude Oil futures that might not
be compelling by itself. It is obviously some form of a pullback, but the move up off the
lows was maybe a little too far too fast to justify shorting; it could also be read as a
potential setup for a long Anti trade, but it is not an example of the best possible trade
FIGURE 7.25 A Mediocre Pullback on the Daily Chart Is an Excellent Pullback on the Weekly Chart
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c07 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:44 Printer: Hamilton Printing
Tools for Conﬁrmation 221
FIGURE 7.26 The Weekly Anti Provides Bullish Context to the Daily Chart
on this time frame. However, the weekly chart shows a clean bounce, which was the ﬁrst
reaction after the collapse from the overextended highs and the ﬁrst pullback after a
strong impulse move pushed prices below the lower channel. The weekly pattern added
conﬁdence to the daily consolidation, and justiﬁed a short attempt on a breakdown out
of this pattern.
Figure 7.26 shows another example on weekly and daily charts of Goldman Sachs
from October 2010. The pattern on the daily chart was anything but convincing: many
large gaps and sudden reversals. Though the market was in an uptrend from the Septem-
ber lows, it might have been difﬁcult to see this at the time. However, the weekly chart
shows a pattern that we know well: several marginal new lows on slackening momen-
tum followed by a sharp reversal off those lows. The upward reversal (not visible on the
daily chart) made new momentum highs on the weekly chart and set up an Anti trade.
This weekly chart pattern put a clearly bullish context on an otherwise difﬁcult daily
chart, and traders would have been justiﬁed aggressively pursuing long setups on the
daily chart. In this case, there were many small bullish setups on this time frame: failure
tests of support, breakouts of small daily ﬂags, and, ﬁnally, an overextended climax just
beyond the weekly measured move objective for the weekly Anti. At this point, realizing
that the weekly chart had basically fulﬁlled its expectations for a measured move would
have removed much of the bullish context from the daily patterns, justifying a reduction
of risk or perhaps a complete exit from the trade.
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c07 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:44 Printer: Hamilton Printing
222 TRADING STRATEGIES
FIGURE 7.27 The Potential Breakout on the Daily Is Contradicted by the Weekly Complex
Consolidation (Bear Flag)
Higher time frame pullbacks can also be a ﬁlter to skip trades that set up against
those pullbacks. Figure 7.27 is an important example that shows what might have been
seen as a good setup for a breakout on the daily chart: the consolidation up against re-
sistance normally suggests the possibility of a strong break above that level, and is the
opposite of the price rejection that normally accompanies a level holding. However, the
weekly chart provided context, showing that the breakout was actually coming near
the top of what was more likely to be bearish complex consolidation on the weekly chart.
In this case, the higher time frame provides a bearish bias, which clearly contradicts the
smaller pattern on the daily chart. The consolidation on the weekly could certainly fail,
and it would do so through the success of the bullish breakout on the daily, but the
probabilities favor downside continuation. There are a number of things you can do with
this information, ranging from skipping the trade on the daily to taking it on smaller risk
(which is not usually a good idea), or perhaps even watching for a breakout failure and
entering a short trade on the daily. This last possibility combines a small pattern on one
time frame with a bigger-picture bias from a higher time frame, which is an excellent
use of multiple time frame information. At the very least, beware of patterns on one time
frame that are clearly contradicted by strong patterns on higher time frames, especially
when the patterns occur at potential inﬂection points.
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c07 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:44 Printer: Hamilton Printing
Tools for Conﬁrmation 223
Higher Time Frame Drives to Targets In general, markets tend toward efﬁciency,
and random walk prevails most of the time; when markets are more predictable, it is
usually in short spurts of activity, which can sometimes be identiﬁed through speciﬁc
patterns in prices. One common area of a more predictable spurt occurs when a pattern
has broken into a move to a target—for instance, on the drive out of a consolidation
pattern or following a strong break of support or resistance. These situations are not
that common, but recognizing that a scenario like this is in play can lend support to
otherwise uninteresting lower time frame patterns. Consider Figure 7.28, which shows
several small consolidations on the daily chart of Finisar Corporation (NASDAQ: FNSR).
These are perfectly acceptable consolidations (the ﬁrst is an Anti, and the second is a
simple bear ﬂag), but the weekly chart provided strong tailwinds for these patterns and
made them much more attractive than they might have been on their own.
Another possible use of this concept is to monitor evolving price action on lower
time frames while a trade is underway on the trading time frame. If consolidation pat-
terns resolve in the intended direction of the trade, all is well. If the trade should fail,
it will usually do so through a failure of one of these lower time frame patterns. Being
able to read evolving price action and market structure on the lower time frame can of-
ten provide excellent exits from trades, but it is necessary to balance this new layer of
information against the possibility of being overly reactive to insigniﬁcant noise.
FIGURE 7.28 The Weekly Flag Adds Power to Small Consolidations on the Daily Chart
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c07 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:44 Printer: Hamilton Printing
224 TRADING STRATEGIES
Higher Time Frame Failure Tests Most traders who have studied multiple time
frame interactions are comfortable with the idea that a market can be uptrending on one
time frame, ranging on another, and downtrending on yet another, but there is another
important consideration that few traders understand: the strongest trends often emerge
in higher time frame consolidation areas. We know that price tends to respect support
and resistance levels in trading ranges, oscillating back and forth between those levels.
These levels are often rough and poorly delineated, and price action within the range
tends to be more random and subject to sudden, large shocks. The irony is that what ap-
pear to be large shocks on one time frame are often strong, tradable trends on the lower
time frame. Since one of the cleanest trades in a range is the test beyond the conﬁnes of
the range that immediately reverses, as in the classic Wyckoff spring or upthrust, we can
trade reactions off those higher time frame ranges with some degree of conﬁdence.
Figure 7.29 shows a continuous chart of Gold futures. After an extended uptrend,
this market ran into resistance, made multiple marginal highs, and eventually rolled over
into a trading range at the beginning of 2011. The sell-off found support at a previous
swing low (visible on the weekly chart in the right pane), and the subsequent move off
that low was a strong uptrend on the daily chart. In this case, resistance eventually failed
and the market continued much higher, but this is not the point. The point is that the
daily chart showed a clean, strong uptrend off the support level deﬁned by the weekly
FIGURE 7.29 A Clean Daily Uptrend While the Weekly Chart Is in a Trading Range
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c07 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:44 Printer: Hamilton Printing
Tools for Conﬁrmation 225
FIGURE 7.30 Another Example of a Lower Time Frame Trend While the Higher Time Frame Is in
a Trading Range
trading range. Even if you are a trader who avoids markets in trading ranges, be aware
that there may be opportunities in those markets on other time frames.
For another example of this concept, look at the EURUSD, pictured in Figure 7.30.
The weekly chart was clearly in a trading range, while the daily chart shows a strong
downtrend off the test of resistance in July. Some of the best and cleanest trends come
within higher time frame consolidation areas. This is an important and often misunder-
stood element of price action that will repay careful study.
Timing Entries from Lower Time Frames
Remember the general three-time-frame structure: there is the time frame actually being
traded (the trading time frame), and a higher and a lower time frame relative to that
trading time frame. This is a somewhat arbitrary structure, but it is important for traders
to deﬁne their intentions and the relevant time frames clearly. It is difﬁcult to isolate
cross-time-frame inﬂuences because, in reality, these ﬂow both ways. The higher time
frame (relative to the trading time frame) usually can suggest which trades are more
likely to reach their targets and which are more likely to fail; the bigger-picture context
provided by the higher time frame can be a valuable layer of information. In contrast,
lower time frames are usually used in two ways: to time precise entries into trading time
P1: OTA
JWBT634-c07 JWBT634-Grimes May 10, 2012 7:44 Printer: Hamilton Printing
226 TRADING STRATEGIES
frame patterns or to monitor price action and conviction that may not be visible on higher
time frame charts.
Timing Entries from the Lower Time Frame There have been hints of using
the lower time frame to ﬁnd exact entry points in the previous section. For instance,
an alert trader coul