
ffirs.indd   1 3/25/2013   9:39:29 PM
Trades abou T  
T o Happen
ffirs.indd   1 3/25/2013   9:39:29 PM
Founded in 1807, John Wiley & Sons is the oldest independent publishing 
company in the United States. With offices in North America, Europe, Aus-
tralia, and Asia, Wiley is globally committed to developing and marketing 
print and electronic products and services for our customers’ professional 
and personal knowledge and understanding.
The Wiley Trading series features books by traders who have survived 
the market’s ever-changing temperament and have prospered—some by 
reinventing systems, others by getting back to basics. Whether a novice 
trader, professional, or somewhere in-between, these books will provide 
the advice and strategies needed to prosper today and well into the future.
For a list of available titles, visit our web site at www.WileyFinance.com.
ffirs.indd   2 3/25/2013   9:39:29 PM
Trades abou T 
T o Happen
A Modern Adaptation of the  
Wyckoff Method
David H. Weis
Foreword by Dr. Alexander Elder
ffirs.indd   3 3/25/2013   9:39:29 PM
Cover image: © istockphoto.com/liangpv
Cover design: Wiley
Copyright © 2013 by David H. W eis. All rights reserved.
Published by John Wiley & Sons, Inc., Hoboken, New Jersey.
Published simultaneously in Canada.
No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any form 
or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, scanning, or otherwise, except as 
permitted under Section 107 or 108 of the 1976 United States Copyright Act, without either the prior 
written permission of the Publisher, or authorization through payment of the appropriate per-copy fee to 
the Copyright Clearance Center, Inc., 222 Rosewood Drive, Danvers, MA 01923, (978) 750-8400, fax 
(978) 646-8600, or on the W eb at www .copyright.com. Requests to the Publisher for permission should 
be addressed to the Permissions Department, John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 111 River Street, Hoboken, NJ 
07030, (201) 748-6011, fax (201) 748-6008, or online at http://www .wiley.com/go/permissions.
Limit of Liability/Disclaimer of W arranty: While the publisher and author have used their best efforts 
in preparing this book, they make no representations or warranties with respect to the accuracy or 
completeness of the contents of this book and specifically disclaim any implied warranties of merchantability 
or fitness for a particular purpose.  No warranty may be created or extended by sales representatives or 
written sales materials. The advice and strategies contained herein may not be suitable for your situation. 
Y ou should consult with a professional where appropriate. Neither the publisher nor author shall be liable 
for any loss of profit or any other commercial damages, including but not limited to special, incidental, 
consequential, or other damages.
Charts created using TradeStation. ©TradeStation T echnologies, Inc.  2001–2012. All rights reserved. No 
investment or trading advice, recommendation, or opinions are being given or intended.
Charts created by MetaStock, a Thomson Reuters Company.
For general information on our other products and services or for technical support, please contact our 
Customer Care Department within the United States at (800) 762-2974, outside the United States at 
(317) 572-3993 or fax (317) 572-4002.
Wiley publishes in a variety of print and electronic formats and by print-on-demand. Some material 
included with standard print versions of this book may not be included in e-books or in print-on-demand. 
If this book refers to media such as a CD or DVD that is not included in the version you purchased, 
you may download this material at http://booksupport.wiley.com. For more information about Wiley 
products, visit www .wiley.com.
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data:
W eis, David H.
 
Trades about to happen : a modern adaptation of the Wyckoff method / David H. W eis.
  
pages cm -- (Wiley trading series)
 
Includes index.
 
ISBN 978-0-470-48780-8 (cloth); 978-0-470-48780 (ebk); 978-1-118-25870-5 (ebk);  
978-1-118-23362-7 (ebk)
 
1.
 
Stocks—Charts, diagrams, etc.
 
2.
 
Stock price forecasting.  
3.
 
Investment analysis.
 
4.
 
Wyckoff, Richard Demille, 1873-1935.  I. Title. 
 
HG6041.W885W45 2013
 
332.63’2042—dc23
 
2012046824
Printed in the United States of America
10   9   8   7   6   5   4   3   2   1
ffirs.indd   4 3/25/2013   9:39:29 PM
This book is dedicated to my wife, Karen,  
and to the memory of my parents.
ffirs.indd   5 3/25/2013   9:39:29 PM
ffirs.indd   6 3/25/2013   9:39:29 PM
For the gods perceive things in the future;
Ordinary people things in the present;
But the wise perceive things about to happen.
—Philostratos, Life of Apollonies of T yana
ffirs.indd   7 3/25/2013   9:39:29 PM
ffirs.indd   8 3/25/2013   9:39:29 PM
ix
C o n t e n t s
Foreword
 
xi
Acknowledgments
 
xiii
Introdu
C
t
I
on
 
1
Chapter 
 
1
 
Where to Find 
t
rades
 
7
a n o verview
Chapter  2  d rawing Lines  11
Chapter 
 
3
 
t
he 
s
tory of the Lines
 
27
Chapter 
 
4
 
t
he Logic of 
r
eading Bar Charts
 
47
Chapter 
 
5
 
s
prings
 
73
Chapter 
 
6
 
u
pthrusts
 
95
Chapter 
 
7
 
a
bsorption
 
107
Chapter 
 
8
 
Chart 
s
tudies
 
117
Chapter 
 
9
 
t
ape 
r
eading 
p
art I
 
127
Chapter 10
 
t
ape 
r
eading 
p
art II
 
163
Chapter 11
 
p
oint & Figure and 
r
enko
 
179
About the Author
 
199
Index
 
201
ftoc.indd   9 3/25/2013   9:21:01 PM
ftoc.indd   10 3/25/2013   9:21:01 PM
xi
Foreword
W
hen you go fishin’ in a lake, you don’t just row out to the middle 
and throw a line in the water. Y ou go where the fish live—around 
the edges and near the sunken trees. Same way, you enter trades near the 
edges of congestion zones, where bulls or bears are so exhausted that a small 
amount of pressure can reverse a trend.”
I’ve often heard these and other pronouncements, delivered in David’s 
Southern drawl, in my Traders’ Camps. Now it is a pleasure to see them in 
his book, available to you even if you can’t travel to a week‐long Camp and 
study with David in person.
David is a quiet man who spends day after day in solitude in his trading 
room, but he has played a large role in the development of many serious 
traders. When discussing markets with friends, I often hear: “This is where 
David would draw a line.” His way of reading charts has been taken up by 
hundreds of his students.
Expanding on classical works of Richard Wyckoff, written almost a 
century ago, David has built a modern superstructure of market analysis. 
The changing heights of price bars, accompanied by rising or falling bars 
of volume are the basic irreducible elements from which David builds his 
market analysis. He uses these patterns to read the behavior of crowds across 
all markets and timeframes—and then to place his orders.
All trades leave indelible tracks on price and volume charts. David focus-
es on them—and these charts speak to him. Now , in this book, he teaches 
you to read their language.
David’s sharp focus on price/volume behavior reminds me of a teacher 
I had in medical school. She was shy and a little deaf, and usually stood in 
“
flast.indd   11 3/25/2013   9:20:50 PM
xii
FoREWoRD
the back during grand rounds. W e knew that she was so observant and so 
attuned to patients’ body language that when professors disagreed about a 
diagnosis, they’ d ask for her opinion. A person who watches intently, on the 
basis of a great deal of experience and without any hidden agenda can see 
deeper than most.
A careful reading of this book will open your eyes to the huge importance 
of false breakouts—what David calls springs (when they point down) and 
upthrusts (when they point up). He promises: “once you become attuned to 
the behavior of a spring and upthrust your eyes will be opened to an action 
signal that works in all time periods. The spring can provide the impetus 
for a short‐term pop playable by day‐traders or serve as the catalyst for 
long‐term capital gains.”
Having sat for hours in the back of the room while David was lecturing 
and showing trade examples, false breakouts have become one of my key 
patterns to trade. Now you can be guided through dozens of charts by 
David, moving forward bar by bar, as you learn to read their messages and 
anticipate trend reversals.
The chapter on absorption will teach you to gauge the strength of 
the current trend. Is that trend moving forward like “the Greek phalanx 
marching in step across the Plain of Troy” as David puts it—or is its advance 
being absorbed by growing supply, which precedes a reversal? Now , as your 
eyes move across David’s charts, you’ll see how their price and volume 
patterns reveal their secret weaknesses or strengths.
Do not rush as you read this book. T o fully benefit from it you need to 
let its many messages sink in. Be sure to apply David’s concepts to current 
charts, watch them open up to you and become more meaningful before 
returning to the book and studying another dozen pages. This isn’t a quickie 
book—it took David years to write, and the more attention you give it, the 
deeper will be your benefit.
Happy reading and happy trading!
Dr. Alexander Elder
www .elder.com
New Y ork City, 2013
flast.indd   12 3/25/2013   9:20:50 PM
xiii
A c k n o w l e d g m e n t s
I 
am totally indebted to my long-time friend, Dr. Alex Elder, who has al-
lowed me to take part in his exotic trading camps. He has been the driving 
force behind the writing of this book. He has always been willing to offer 
support and helpful suggestions, and he opened the doors to make the pub-
lication by Wiley possible. I am also grateful to the help received from Alfred 
Tagher and Bob Fulks. They have been instrumental in the programming 
of my custom charting tools. Also, to my many students whose needs have 
helped me crystallize different approaches to teaching the Wyckoff material. 
As a former teacher, I consider their successes to be my greatest reward.
flast.indd   13 3/25/2013   9:20:50 PM
flast.indd   14 3/25/2013   9:20:50 PM
Trades abou T  
T o Happen
flast.indd   15 3/25/2013   9:20:50 PM
flast.indd   16 3/25/2013   9:20:50 PM
1
Introduction
R
ichard Wyckoff came to Wall Street in 1888. The details of his 
40‐year career are chronicled in his autobiography, Wall Street Ventures 
and Adventures (1930). The tales of the large operators he observed and the 
inside story of their manipulative campaigns make interesting reading. But 
his search to develop a “trained judgment” for trading offers the most com-
pelling and inspiring story. Describing his progress as of 1905, Wyckoff  
wrote:
I had now spent the greater part of seventeen years in Wall Street—as 
a boy, clerk, silent partner and managing partner in Stock Exchange 
houses. But with all I had seen, studied, and observed, I had yet no well‐
defined plan or method for money‐making in the stock market, either 
for my clients or for myself.
1
Up to this point in his career, two threads wind through his experiences. 
First, big traders spend hours studying stock transactions as they appear 
on the ticker tape. Second, he saw the need for a college or educational 
service to teach the “inner workings of the stock market.” He wanted to 
show how the public was repeatedly bilked by the large manipulators in the 
market. In late 1907, as Wall Street suffered from the aftershock of another 
panic, Wyckoff decided to write an educational publication—a monthly 
magazine called The Ticker—consisting of articles about the stock market. 
The bulk of the writing rested on Wyckoff’s shoulders, and the pressure to 
1 Richard D. Wyckoff, Wall Street Ventures and Adventures (New Y ork: Greenwood Press, 1968), 
134.
intro.indd   1 3/21/2013   3:01:56 PM
2INTRoDUcTIoN
find new material led him into many facets of the stock, bond, and com-
modity markets. He tested mechanical trading methods based on statistics 
and numerous theories presented to him by readers. While he ultimately 
moved in a different direction, he realized that charts provided a better re-
cord of price history than pure statistics. As his study of charts and stock 
market techniques progressed, he turned to the ticker tape. “I saw more and 
more that the action of stocks reflected the plans and purposes of those who 
dominated them. I began to see possibilities of judging from the very tape 
what these master minds were doing.”
2 Under the guidance of a former floor 
trader at the stock exchange, Wyckoff began a serious study of tape reading. 
His observations became the impetus for a series of tape reading articles in 
The Ticker and his readers clamored for more. This original series of articles 
provided the material for Wyckoff’s first book, Studies in T ape Reading, pub-
lished in 1910 under the pseudonym Rollo Tape. About this book, Wyckoff  
later wrote in his autobiography:
The purpose of the self‐training and the continued application of the 
methods suggested in Studies in T ape Reading was to develop an in-
tuitive judgment, which would be the natural outcome of spending  
twenty‐seven hours a week at the ticker over many months and years.
3
In the next few years, the price swings in stocks became larger, and 
Wyckoff applied his tape reading methods to the broader movements of 
the market. The public demanded more frequent trading recommendations 
with less emphasis on the analysis. This spawned his T rend Letter, a weekly 
one‐page sheet containing a list of trades. It grew in popularity until its fol-
lowing became too large and unwieldy causing Wyckoff to seek privacy. He 
ended the publication in 1917 after achieving the largest following of any 
individual on Wall Street since the 1890s.
Wyckoff did not drift into obscurity . He wrote several more books. The 
Ticker was transformed into the Magazine of Wall Street, with which he was heav-
ily involved until declining health forced his retirement in 1926. In the final 
years of his life, Wyckoff returned to the idea of educating the public and con-
ceived a W all Street 
c
ollege. His health dictated a less monumental effort. In 
1932, he turned his attention to a course explaining his method of trading in 
stocks. The original course was divided into two divisions: Division 
o
ne, A 
2  Ibid., 168.
3  Ibid., 176.
intro.indd   2 3/21/2013   3:01:56 PM
3INTRoDUcTIoN
Course of Instruction in Stock Market Science and T echnique; and Division T wo, A 
Course of Instruction in T ape Reading and Active T rading. Wyckoff died in 1934.
Since 1934, the “Wyckoff course,” as it is known, has preserved Wyckoff’s 
place in the pantheon of market masters. Thousands of traders and inves-
tors have taken the course, which is still offered today by the Stock Market 
Institute in Phoenix, Arizona. 
o
ver the past 80 years, the course has been 
modified and updated to accommodate changes in market conditions with-
out disturbing Wyckoff’s original work. It contains the specific details of  
Wyckoff’s trading/analytical methods. His chapter on “Determining the 
Trend of the Market by the V ertical Bar 
c
hart of the NY Times Average of 
50 Stocks” captures the essence of his work and provides the guiding light 
for my book.
Many students who take the Wyckoff course today focus on the models 
of accumulation and distribution. Wyckoff never devised such an interpreta-
tion of accumulation and distribution. They were added after his death. He 
certainly discussed some of the features of market behavior that were incor-
porated into these models. Accumulation and distribution are taught today as 
behavior revealed on bar charts with volume. Y et, when Wyckoff mentioned 
these terms, it was mostly in regard to point‐and‐figure charts and never with 
specific components. It is my opinion that these models were created by his 
former associates to add specificity to the course. As expressed in his autobi-
ography , Wyckoff wanted to teach students how to develop a trader’s feel—
intuition. Specificity sells better than intuition; it’s more tangible. I believe 
there is too much dependency on recognizing patterns of behavior rather than 
on the art of reading bar charts. These patterns can quickly become cookie 
prints, like geometric formations, into which price movement is stuffed by 
those looking for a quick, no‐think fix. They lead to rigid rather than creative 
thinking. They often frustrate the new student of Wyckoff analysis who might 
not realize the world of chart reading is gray , not black or white. 
o
ne has to 
have an open mind rather than being fixed on a preconceived ideal. While the 
metaphors created by Bob Evans, a famous teacher of the Wyckoff course, 
describing springs, up‐thrusts, ice lines, and so on, are colorful and instruc-
tive, Wyckoff never used such terminology; however, that does not make them 
forbidden or useless. 
o
n the contrary , they are very helpful. Wyckoff was first 
and foremost a tape reader. As the markets grew more robust and volatile, he 
applied his tape reading skills to bar chart reading, where emphasis is placed 
on price range, position of the close, and volume. Wyckoff obviously knew the 
importance of trend lines, channels, and support/resistance lines; however, 
they are given greater coverage in the modern course.
intro.indd   3 3/21/2013   3:01:56 PM
4INTRoDUcTIoN
I have borrowed from Wyckoff’s original writings as well as the concepts 
of Bob Evans. My approach, which incorporates price range, close, and  
volume, also utilizes what I call “the story of the lines,” that is, the story of 
the price/volume behavior as framed and interconnected by lines drawn on 
charts. The lines bring the price movement into focus and guide one toward 
the behavior that prompts action in the market. Thus, I am trying to find 
trades on charts rather than figuring out if accumulation or distribution is 
taking place. A real gold mine of information lies in Wyckoff’s method of 
reading bar charts. It has become a lost art.
The purpose of my book is to show how one can logically interpret bar 
charts and wave charts to find trades about to happen. By studying the chart 
examples in this book, I believe the reader will gain tremendous insight into 
reading what markets say about themselves. It may seem tedious at first, 
but, through practice and repetition (repetition is the mother of wisdom!), 
it will become second nature. It will give you the ability to locate turning 
points of different degrees.
In the studies that appear throughout this book, we will:
 ■ c ompare effort of the buying or selling with the reward (i.e., volume 
versus upward or downward progress).
 ■ Watch for ease of movement or lack of movement (i.e., wide price bars 
versus narrow price bars).
 ■ c onsider the meaning of the close within the range of a price bar.
 ■ Watch for shortening of upward or downward thrust.
 ■ Watch for follow‐through or lack of follow‐through after penetrations 
of support/resistance (this includes the notion of springs and upthrusts).
 ■ Watch for tests of high‐volume or “vertical” areas where price accelerated 
upward or downward.
 ■ c onsider the interaction of price with trend lines, channels, and  
support/resistance lines, which often highlight the price/volume story.
In the second half of this book, I will introduce adaptations I have made to 
Wyckoff’s original tape‐reading tools, which are better suited for the enor-
mous volatility of today’s stock and futures markets. These can be applied to 
intraday and daily price movement, and software has been created for use in 
intro.indd   4 3/21/2013   3:01:57 PM
5INTRoDUcTIoN
real time. T o find trades on any type of chart, we will be guided by the fol-
lowing statement, made long ago by Richard Wyckoff:
Successful tape reading [chart reading] is a study of Force. It requires 
ability to judge which side has the greatest pulling power and one must 
have the courage to go with that side. There are critical points which 
occur in each swing just as in the life of a business or of an individual. 
At these junctures it seems as though a feather’s weight on either side 
would determine the immediate trend. Any one who can spot these 
points has much to win and little to lose.
4
After reading this book, I guarantee you will never go back to the previ-
ous way you viewed charts. I have no secrets and will teach all I know about 
Wyckoff and price/volume behavior. 
c
onfucius said: “A true teacher is one 
who knows (and makes known) the New , by revitalizing the 
o
ld.”
4 Rollo Tape [pseud.], Studies in T ape Reading (Burlington, VT: Fraser, 1910), 95.
intro.indd   5 3/21/2013   3:01:57 PM