

Contents
Cover
Series
Title Page
Copyright
Dedication
Acknowledgments
List of Terms Used in This Book
Introduction
HOW TO READ THESE BOOKS
SIGNS OF STRENGTH: TRENDS, BREAKOUTS, REVERSAL BARS, AND REVERSALS
BAR COUNTING BASICS: HIGH 1, HIGH 2, LOW 1, LOW 2
Part I: Breakouts: Transitioning into a New Trend
Chapter 1: Example of How to Trade a Breakout
Chapter 2: Signs of Strength in a Breakout
Chapter 3: Initial Breakout
Chapter 4: Breakout Entries in Existing Strong Trends
Chapter 5: Failed Breakouts, Breakout Pullbacks, and Breakout Tests
Chapter 6: Gaps
Part II: Magnets: Support and Resistance
Chapter 7: Measured Moves Based on the Size of the First Leg (the Spike)
Chapter 8: Measured Moves Based on Gaps and Trading Ranges
Chapter 9: Reversals Often End at Signal Bars from Prior Failed Reversals
Chapter 10: Other Magnets
Part III: Pullbacks: Trends Converting to Trading Ranges
Chapter 11: First Pullback Sequence: Bar, Minor Trend Line, Moving Average, Moving

Average Gap, Major Trend Line
Chapter 12: Double Top Bear Flags and Double Bottom Bull Flags
Chapter 13: Twenty Gap Bars
Chapter 14: First Moving Average Gap Bars
Chapter 15: Key Inflection Times of the Day That Set Up Breakouts and Reversals
Chapter 16: Counting the Legs of Trends and Trading Ranges
Chapter 17: Bar Counting: High and Low 1, 2, 3, and 4 Patterns and ABC Corrections
Chapter 18: Wedge and Other Three-Push Pullbacks
Chapter 19: Dueling Lines: Wedge Pullback to the Trend Line
Chapter 20: “Reversal” Patterns: Double Tops and Bottoms and Head and Shoulders Tops
and Bottoms
Part IV: Trading Ranges
Chapter 21: Example of How to Trade a Trading Range
Chapter 22: Tight Trading Ranges
Chapter 23: Triangles
Part V: Orders and Trade Management
Chapter 24: Scalping, Swinging, Trading, and Investing
Chapter 25: Mathematics of Trading: Should I Take This Trade? Will I Make Money If I Take
This Trade?
THE TRADER'S EQUATION
DIRECTIONAL PROBABILITY
Chapter 26: Need Two Reasons to Take a Trade
Chapter 27: Entering on Stops
Chapter 28: Entering on Limits
Chapter 29: Protective and Trailing Stops
Chapter 30: Profit Taking and Profit Targets
Chapter 31: Scaling Into and Out of a Trade

Chapter 32: Getting Trapped In or Out of a Trade
About the Author
About the Website
Index

Founded in 1807, John Wiley & Sons is the oldest independent publishing company in the United States. With offices in North America, Europe,
Australia, and Asia, Wiley is globally committed to developing and marketing print and electronic products and services for our customers'
professional and personal knowledge and understanding.
The Wiley Trading series features books by traders who have survived the market's ever changing temperament and have prospered—some by
reinventing systems, others by getting back to basics. Whether a novice trader, professional, or somewhere in-between, these books will provide
the advice and strategies needed to prosper today and well into the future.
For a list of available titles, please visit our Web site at 
www.WileyFinance.com
.


Copyright © 2012 by Al Brooks. All rights reserved.
The first edition of this book, titled 
Reading Price Charts Bar by Bar: The Technical Analysis of Price Action for the Serious Trader
, was
published in 2009.
Published by John Wiley & Sons, Inc., Hoboken, New Jersey.
Published simultaneously in Canada.
All charts were created with TradeStation. © TradeStation Technologies, Inc. All rights reserved.
No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical,
photocopying, recording, scanning, or otherwise, except as permitted under Section 107 or 108 of the 1976 United States Copyright Act, without
either the prior written permission of the Publisher, or authorization through payment of the appropriate per-copy fee to the Copyright Clearance
Center, Inc., 222 Rosewood Drive, Danvers, MA 01923, (978) 750-8400, fax (978) 646-8600, or on the Web at 
www.copyright.com
. Requests to
the Publisher for permission should be addressed to the Permissions Department, John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 111 River Street, Hoboken, NJ 07030,
(201) 748-6011, fax (201) 748-6008, or online at 
http://www.wiley.com/go/permissions
.
Limit of Liability/Disclaimer of Warranty: While the publisher and author have used their best efforts in preparing this book, they make no
representations or warranties with respect to the accuracy or completeness of the contents of this book and specifically disclaim any implied
warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. No warranty may be created or extended by sales representatives or written sales
materials. The advice and strategies contained herein may not be suitable for your situation. You should consult with a professional where
appropriate. Neither the publisher nor author shall be liable for any loss of profit or any other commercial damages, including but not limited to
special, incidental, consequential, or other damages.
For general information on our other products and services or for technical support, please contact our Customer Care Department within the
United States at (800) 762-2974, outside the United States at (317) 572-3993 or fax (317) 572-4002.
Wiley also publishes its books in a variety of electronic formats. Some content that appears in print may not be available in electronic books. For
more information about Wiley products, visit our web site at 
www.wiley.com
.
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data:
Brooks, Al, 1952–
Trading price action trading ranges : technical analysis of price charts bar by bar for the serious trader / Al Brooks.
p. cm. – (The Wiley trading series)
“The first edition of this book titled, Reading price charts bar by bar : the technical analysis of price action for the serious trader, was published in
2009”–T.p. verso.
Includes index.
ISBN 978-1-118-06667-6 (cloth); ISBN 978-1-118-17231-5 (ebk);
ISBN 978-1-118-17232-2 (ebk); ISBN 978-1-118-17233-9 (ebk)
1. Stocks–Prices–Charts, diagrams, etc. I. Brooks, Al, 1952– Reading price charts bar by bar. II. Title.
HG4638.B757 2012
332.63′2042–dc23
2011029299

I would like to dedicate this book to my daughter, Skylar Brooks, who is tender, sweet, sensitive, incredibly accomplished, trusting, and
persistently hopeful. She wants the world to be a better place and is doing far more than the rest of us to make it happen.

Acknowledgments
My primary goal is to present a series of comprehensive books on price action, and the greatest concern among readers was how difficult my
earlier book, 
Reading Price Charts Bar by Bar
, was to read. I am deeply appreciative of all of the constructive comments that readers have
provided and those from the participants in my daily live webinars. Many of these comments were incredibly insightful and I have incorporated them
in this current edition. I am also thankful to all of the traders who have been in my live trading room, because they have given me the opportunity to
say things repeatedly until I could clearly articulate what I am seeing and doing. They have also asked many questions that have helped me find the
words to communicate more effectively, and I have put those words in these books.
I would like to give a special thank-you to Victor Brancale, who spent long hours proofreading the manuscripts and providing hundreds of very
helpful edits and suggestions, and to Robert Gjerde, who built and administers my website and has given me candid feedback on the chat room
and the website. Finally, I want to thank Ginger Szala, the Group Editorial Director of 
Futures
 magazine, for giving me ongoing opportunities to
publish articles and speak in webinars, and for regularly giving me very helpful advice on how to become more involved with the trading community.

List of Terms Used in This Book
All of these terms are defined in a practical way to be helpful to traders and not necessarily in the theoretical way often described by technicians.
always in
 If you have to be in the market at all times, either long or short, this is whatever your current position is (always in long or always in
short). If at any time you are forced to decide between initiating a long or a short trade and are confident in your choice, then the market is in
always-in mode at that moment. Almost all of these trades require a spike in the direction of the trend before traders will have confidence. 
barbwire
 A trading range of three or more bars that largely overlap and one or more is a doji. It is a type of tight trading range with prominent
tails and often relatively large bars. 
bar pullback
 In an upswing, a bar pullback is a bar with a low below the low of the prior bar. In a downswing, it is a bar with a high above that
of the prior bar. 
bear reversal
 A change in trend from up to down (a bear trend). 
blown account
 An account that your losses have reduced below the minimum margin requirements set by your broker, and you will not be
allowed to place a trade unless you deposit more money. 
breakout
 The high or low of the current bar extends beyond some prior price of significance such as a swing high or low, the high or low of
any prior bar, a trend line, or a trend channel. 
breakout bar (or bar breakout)
 A bar that creates a breakout. It is usually a strong trend bar. 
breakout mode
 A setup where a breakout in either direction should have follow-through. 
breakout pullback
 A small pullback of one to about five bars that occurs within a few bars after a breakout. Since you see it as a pullback,
you are expecting the breakout to resume and the pullback is a setup for that resumption. If instead you thought that the breakout would fail,
you would not use the term 
pullback
 and instead would see the pullback as a failed breakout. For example, if there was a five-bar breakout
above a bear trend line but you believed that the bear trend would continue, you would be considering shorting this bear flag and not looking to
buy a pullback immediately after it broke out to the downside. 
breakout test
 A breakout pullback that comes close to the original entry price to test a breakeven stop. It may overshoot it or undershoot it by
a few ticks. It can occur within a bar or two of entry or after an extended move or even 20 or more bars later. 
bull reversal
 A change in trend from a downtrend to an uptrend (a bull trend). 
buying pressure
 Strong bulls are asserting themselves and their buying is creating bull trend bars, bars with tails at the bottoms, and two-bar
bull reversals. The effect is cumulative and usually is eventually followed by higher prices. 
candle
 A chart representation of price action in which the body is the area between the open and the close. If the close is above the open, it is
a bull candle and is shown as white. If it is below, it is a bear candle and is black. The lines above and below are called tails (some
technicians call them wicks or shadows). 
chart type
 A line, bar, candle, volume, tick, or other type of chart. 
climax
 A move that has gone too far too fast and has now reversed direction to either a trading range or an opposite trend. Most climaxes
end with trend channel overshoots and reversals, but most of those reversals result in trading ranges and not an opposite trend. 
countertrend
 A trade or setup that is in the opposite direction from the current trend (the current always-in direction). This is a losing strategy
for most traders since the risk is usually at least as large as the reward and the probability is rarely high enough to make the trader's equation
favorable. 
countertrend scalp
 A trade taken in the belief that there is more to go in the trend but that a small pullback is due; you enter countertrend to
capture a small profit as that small pullback is forming. This is usually a mistake and should be avoided. 
day trade
 A trade where the intent is to exit on the day of entry. 
directional probability
 The probability that the market will move either up or down any number of ticks before it reaches a certain number of
ticks in the opposite direction. If you are looking at an equidistant move up and down, it hovers around 50 percent most of the time, which
means that there is a 50–50 chance that the market will move up by X ticks before it moves down X ticks, and a 50–50 chance that it will
move down X ticks before it moves up X ticks. 
doji
 A candle with a small body or no body at all. On a 5 minute chart, the body would be only one or two ticks; but on a daily chart, the body
might be 10 or more ticks and still appear almost nonexistent. Neither the bulls nor the bears control the bar. All bars are either trend bars or
nontrend bars, and those nontrend bars are called dojis. 
double bottom
 A chart formation in which the low of the current bar is about the same as the low of a prior swing low. That prior low can be
just one bar earlier or 20 or more bars earlier. It does not have to be at the low of the day, and it commonly forms in bull flags (a double bottom
bull flag). 
double bottom bull flag
 A pause or bull flag in a bull trend that has two spikes down to around the same price and then reverses back into a
bull trend. 
double bottom pullback
 A buy setup composed of a double bottom followed by a deep pullback that forms a higher low. 
double top
 A chart formation in which the high of the current bar is about the same as the high of a prior swing high. That prior high can be
just one bar earlier or 20 or more bars earlier. It does not have to be at the high of the day, and it commonly forms in bear flags (a double top
bear flag). 
double top bear flag
 A pause or bear flag in a bear trend that has two spikes up to around the same price and then reverses back into a
bear trend. 
double top pullback
 A sell setup composed of a double top followed by a deep pullback that forms a lower high. 
early longs
 Traders who buy as a bull signal bar is forming rather than waiting for it to close and then entering on a buy stop at one tick above
its high. 
early shorts
 Traders who sell as a bear signal bar is forming rather than waiting for it to close and then entering on a sell stop at one tick
below its low. 
edge
 A setup with a positive trader's equation. The trader has a mathematical advantage if he trades the setup. Edges are always small and
fleeting because they need someone on the other side, and the market is filled with smart traders who won't allow an edge to be big and
persistent. 

EMA
 See 
exponential moving average (EMA)
. 
entry bar
 The bar during which a trade is entered. 
exponential moving average (EMA)
 The charts in these books use a 20-bar exponential moving average, but any moving average can be
useful. 
fade
 To place a trade in the opposite direction of the trend (for example, selling a bull breakout that you expect to fail and reverse downward). 
failed failure
 A failure that fails, resuming in the direction of the original breakout, and therefore a breakout pullback. Since it is a second
signal, it is more reliable. For example, if there is a breakout above a trading range and the bar after the breakout is a bear reversal bar, if the
market trades below that bar, the breakout has failed. If the market then trades above the high of a prior bar within the next few bars, the failed
breakout has failed and now the breakout is resuming. This means that the failed breakout became a small bull flag and just a pullback from
the breakout. 
failure (a failed move)
 A move where the protective stop is hit before a scalper's profit is secured or before the trader's objective is reached,
usually leading to a move in the opposite direction as trapped traders are forced to exit at a loss. Currently, a scalper's target in the Emini of
four ticks usually requires a six-tick move, and a target in the QQQQ of 10 ticks usually requires a move of 12 cents. 
false
 Failed, failure. 
five-tick failure
 A trade in the Emini that reaches five ticks beyond the signal bar and then reverses. For example, a breakout of a bull flag
runs five ticks, and once the bar closes, the next bar has a low that is lower. Most limit orders to take a one-point profit would fail to get filled
since a move usually has to go one tick beyond the order before it is filled. It is often a setup for a trade in the opposite direction. 
flat
 Refers to a trader who is not currently holding any positions. 
follow-through
 After the initial move, like a breakout, it is one or more bars that extend the move. Traders like to see follow-through on the
next bar and on the several bars after that, hoping for a trend where they stand to make more profit. 
follow-through bar
 A bar that creates follow-through after the entry bar; it is usually the next bar but sometimes forms a couple of bars later. 
fractal
 Every pattern is a fractal of a pattern on a higher time frame chart. This means that every pattern is a micro pattern on a higher time
frame and every micro pattern is a standard pattern on a smaller time frame. 
gap
 A space between any two price bars on the chart. An opening gap is a common occurrence and is present if the open of the first bar of
today is beyond the high or low of the prior bar (the last bar of yesterday) or of the entire day. A moving average gap is present when the low
of a bar is above a flat or falling moving average, or the high of a bar is below a flat or rising moving average. Traditional gaps (breakout,
measuring, and exhaustion) on daily charts have intraday equivalents in the form of various trend bars. 
gap bar
 See 
moving average gap bar
. 
gap reversal
 A formation in which the current bar extends one tick beyond the prior bar back into the gap. For example, if there is a gap up
open and the second bar of the day trades one tick below the low of the first bar, this is a gap reversal. 
HFT
 See 
high-frequency trading (HFT)
. 
higher high
 A swing high that is higher than a previous swing high. 
higher low
 A swing low that is higher than a previous swing low. 
higher time frame (HTF)
 A chart covering the same amount of time as the current chart, but having fewer bars. For example, compared to
the day session 5 minute Emini chart on an average day, examples of higher time frame charts include a 15 minute chart, a tick chart with
25,000 ticks per bar, and a volume chart with 100,000 contracts per bar (each of these charts usually has fewer than 30 bars on an average
day, compared to the 81 bars on the 5 minute chart). 
high-frequency trading (HFT)
 Also known as algorithmic trading or black box trading, it is a type of program trading where firms place
millions of orders a day in thousands of stocks to scalp profits as small as a penny, and the trading is based on statistical analysis rather than
fundamentals. 
high/low 1 or 2
 Either a high 1 or 2 or a low 1 or 2. 
high 1, 2, 3, or 4
 A high 1 is a bar with a high above the prior bar in a bull flag or near the bottom of a trading range. If there is then a bar with
a lower high (it can occur one or several bars later), the next bar in this correction whose high is above the prior bar's high is a high 2. Third
and fourth occurrences are a high 3 and 4. A high 3 is a wedge bull flag variant. 
HTF
 See 
higher time frame (HTF)
. 
ii
 Consecutive inside bars, where the second is inside the first. At the end of a leg, it is a breakout mode setup and can become a flag or a
reversal setup. A less reliable version is a “bodies-only ii,” where you ignore the tails. Here, the second body is inside the first body, which is
inside the body before it. 
iii
 Three inside bars in a row, and a somewhat more reliable pattern than an ii. 
inside bar
 A bar with a high that is at or below the high of the prior bar and a low that is at or above the low of the prior bar. 
institution
 Also called the smart money, it can be a pension fund, hedge fund, insurance company, bank, broker, large individual trader, or
any other entity that trades enough volume to impact the market. Market movement is the cumulative effect of many institutions placing trades,
and a single institution alone usually cannot move a major market for very long. Traditional institutions place trades based on fundamentals,
and they used to be the sole determinant of the market's direction. However, HFT firms now have a significant influence on the day's
movement since their trading currently generates most of the day's volume. HFT firms are a special type of institutional firm and their trading is
based on statistics and not fundamentals. Traditional institutions determine the direction and target, but mathematicians determine the path
that the market takes to get there. 
ioi
 Inside-outside-inside—three consecutive bars where the second bar is an outside bar, and the third bar is an inside bar. It is often a
breakout mode setup where a trader looks to buy above the inside bar or sell below it. 
ledge
 A bull ledge is a small trading range with a bottom created by two or more bars with identical lows; a bear ledge is a small trading
range with a top created by two or more bars with identical highs. 
leg
 A small trend that breaks a trend line of any size; the term is used only where there are at least two legs on the chart. It is any smaller trend
that is part of a larger trend and it can be a pullback (a countertrend move), a swing in a trend or in a sideways market, or a with-trend move in
a trend that occurs between any two pullbacks within the trend. 
likely
 At least 60 percent certain. 
long
 A person who buys a position in a market or the actual position itself. 
lot
 The smallest position size that can be traded in a market. It is a share when referring to stocks and a contract when referring to Eminis or

other futures. 
lower high
 A swing high that is lower than a previous swing high. 
lower low
 A swing low that is lower than a previous swing low. 
low 1, 2, 3, or 4
 A low 1 is a bar with a low below the prior bar in a bear flag or near the top of a trading range. If there is then a bar with a
higher low (it can occur one or several bars later), the next bar in this correction whose low is below the prior bar's low is a low 2. Third and
fourth occurrences are a low 3 and 4. A low 3 is a wedge bear flag variant. 
major trend line
 Any trend line that contains most of the price action on the screen and is typically drawn using bars that are at least 10 bars
apart. 
major trend reversal
 A reversal from a bull to a bear trend or from a bear trend to a bull trend. The setup must include a test of the old trend
extreme after a break of the trend line. 
meltdown
 A sell-off in a bear spike or a tight bear channel without significant pullbacks and that extends further than the fundamentals would
dictate. 
melt-up
 A rally in a bull spike or a tight bull channel without significant pullbacks and that extends further than the fundamentals would dictate. 
micro
 Any traditional pattern can form over one to about five bars and still be valid, although easily overlooked. When it forms, it is a micro
version of the pattern. Every micro pattern is a traditional pattern on a smaller time frame chart, and every traditional pattern is a micro pattern
on a higher time frame chart. 
micro channel
 A very tight channel where most of the bars have their highs and lows touching the trend line and, often, also the trend channel
line. It is the most extreme form of a tight channel, and it has no pullbacks or only one or two small pullbacks. 
micro double bottom
 Consecutive or nearly consecutive bars with lows that are near the same price. 
micro double top
 Consecutive or nearly consecutive bars with highs that are near the same price. 
micro measuring gap
 When the bar before and the bar after a strong trend bar do not overlap, this is a sign of strength and often leads to a
measured move. For example, if there is a strong bull trend bar and the low of the bar after it is at or above the high of the bar before it, the
midpoint between that low and that high is the micro measuring gap. 
micro trend channel line
 A trend channel line drawn across the highs or lows of three to five consecutive bars. 
micro trend line breakout
 A trend line on any time frame that is drawn across from two to about 10 bars where most of the bars touch or are
close to the trend line, and then one of the bars has a false breakout through the trend line. This false breakout sets up a with-trend entry. If it
fails within a bar or two, then there is usually a countertrend trade. 
money stop
 A stop based on a fixed dollar amount or number of points, like two points in the Eminis or a dollar in a stock. 
moving average
 The charts in this book use a 20-bar exponential moving average, but any moving average can be useful. 
moving average gap bar (gap bar)
 A bar that does not touch the moving average. The space between the bar and the moving average is
the gap. The first pullback in a strong trend that results in a moving average gap bar is usually followed by a test of the trend's extreme. For
example, when there is a strong bull trend and there is a pullback that finally has a bar with a high below the moving average, this is often a buy
setup for a test of the high of the trend. 
nesting
 Sometimes a pattern has a smaller version of a comparable pattern “nested” within it. For example, it is common for the right
shoulder of a head and shoulders top to be either a small head and shoulders top or a double top. 
news
 Useless information generated by the media for the sole purpose of selling advertising and making money for the media company. It is
unrelated to trading, is impossible to evaluate, and should always be ignored. 
oio
 Outside-inside-outside, an outside bar followed by an inside bar, followed by an outside bar. 
oo
 Outside-outside, an outside bar followed by a larger outside bar. 
opening reversal
 A reversal in the first hour or so of the day. 
outside bar
 A bar with a high that is above or at the high of the prior bar and a low that is below the low of the prior bar, or a bar with a low
that is below or at the low of the prior bar and a high that is above the high of the prior bar. 
outside down bar
 An outside bar with a close below its open. 
outside up bar
 An outside bar with a close above its open. 
overshoot
 The market surpasses a prior price of significance like a swing point or a trend line. 
pause bar
 A bar that does not extend the trend. In a bull trend, a pause bar has a high that is at or below the prior bar, or a small bar with a
high that is only a tick or so higher than the previous bar when the previous bar is a strong bull trend bar. It is a type of pullback. 
pip
 A tick in the foreign exchange (forex) market. However, some data vendors provide quotes with an extra decimal place, which should be
ignored. 
pressing their longs
 In a bull trend, bulls add to their longs as in a bull spike and as the market breaks out to a new high, because they
expect another leg up to about a measured move. 
pressing their shorts
 In a bear trend, bears add to their shorts in a bear spike and as the market breaks out to a new low, because they
expect another leg down to about a measured move. 
price action
 Any change in price on any chart type or time frame. 
probability
 The chance of success. For example, if a trader looks back at the most recent 100 times a certain setup led to a trade and finds
that it led to a profitable trade 60 times, then that would indicate that the setup has about a 60 percent probability of success. There are many
variables that can never be fully tested, so probabilities are only approximations and at times can be very misleading. 
probably
 At least 60 percent certain. 
pullback
 A temporary pause or countertrend move that is part of a trend, swing, or leg and does not retrace beyond the start of the trend,
swing, or leg. It is a small trading range where traders expect the trend to resume soon. For example, a bear pullback is a sideways to upward
move in a bear trend, swing, or leg that will be followed by at least a test of the prior low. It can be as small as a one-tick move above the high
of the prior bar or it can even be a pause, like an inside bar. 
pullback bar
 A bar that reverses the prior bar by at least one tick. In an uptrend, it is a bar with a low below that of the prior bar. 
reasonable
 A setup with a favorable trader's equation. 
reversal
 A change to an opposite type of behavior. Most technicians use the term to mean a change from a bull trend to a bear trend or from
a bear trend to a bull trend. However, trading range behavior is opposite to trending behavior, so when a trend becomes a trading range, this
is also a reversal. When a trading range becomes a trend, it is a reversal but is usually called a breakout. 

reversal bar
 A trend bar in the opposite direction of the trend. When a bear leg is reversing up, a bull reversal bar is a bull trend bar, and the
classic description includes a tail at the bottom and a close above the open and near the top. A bear reversal bar is a bear trend bar in a bull
leg, and the traditional description includes a tail at the top and a close below the open and near the bottom. 
reward
 The number of ticks that a trader expects to make from a trade. For example, if the trader exits with a limit order at a profit target, it is
the number of ticks between the entry price and the profit target. 
risk
 The number of ticks from a trader's entry price to a protective stop. It is the minimum that the trader will lose if a trade goes against him
(slippage and other factors can make the actual risk greater than the theoretical risk). 
risk off
 When traders think that the stock market will fall, they become risk averse, sell out of volatile stocks and currencies, and transition into
safe-haven investments, like Johnson & Johnson (JNJ), Altria Group (MO), Procter & Gamble (PG), the U.S. dollar, and the Swiss franc. 
risk on
 When traders think that the stock market is strong, they are willing to take more risks and invest in stocks that tend to rise faster than
the overall market, and invest in more volatile currencies, like the Australian dollar or the Swedish krona. 
risky
 When the trader's equation is unclear or barely favorable for a trade. It can also mean that the probability of success for a trade is 50
percent or less, regardless of the risk and potential reward. 
scalp
 A trade that is exited with a small profit, usually before there are any pullbacks. In the Emini, when the average range is about 10 to 15
points, a scalp trade is usually any trade where the goal is less than four points. For the SPY or stocks, it might be 10 to 30 cents. For more
expensive stocks, it can be $1 to $2. Since the profit is often smaller than the risk, a trader has to win at least 70 percent of the time, which is
an unrealistic goal for most traders. Traders should take trades only where the potential reward is at least as great as the risk unless they are
extremely skilled. 
scalper
 A trader who primarily scalps for small profits, usually using a tight stop. 
scalper's profit
 A typical amount of profit that a scalper would be targeting. 
scratch
 A trade that is close to breakeven with either a small profit or a loss. 
second entry
 The second time within a few bars of the first entry where there is an entry bar based on the same logic as the first entry. For
example, if a breakout above a wedge bull flag fails and pulls back to a double bottom bull flag, this pullback sets up a second buy signal for
the wedge bull flag. 
second moving average gap bar setup
 If there is a first moving average gap bar and a reversal toward the moving average does not
reach the moving average, and instead the move away from the moving average continues, it is the next reversal in the direction of the moving
average. 
second signal
 The second time within a few bars of the first signal where there is a setup based on the same logic as the first signal. 
selling pressure
 Strong bears are asserting themselves and their selling is creating bear trend bars, bars with tails at the tops, and two-bar
bear reversals. The effect is cumulative and usually is eventually followed by lower prices. 
setup
 A pattern of one or more bars used by traders as the basis to place entry orders. If an entry order is filled, the last bar of the setup
becomes the signal bar. Most setups are just a single bar. 
shaved body
 A candle with no tail at one or both ends. A shaved top has no tail at the top and a shaved bottom has no tail at the bottom. 
short
 As a verb, to sell a stock or futures contract to initiate a new position (not to exit a prior purchase). As a noun, a person who sells
something short, or the actual position itself. 
shrinking stairs
 A stairs pattern where the most recent breakout is smaller than the previous one. It is a series of three or more trending
highs in a bull trend or lows in a bear trend where each breakout to a new extreme is by fewer ticks than the prior breakout, indicating waning
momentum. It can be a three-push pattern, but it does not have to resemble a wedge and can be any series of broad swings in a trend. 
signal bar
 The bar immediately before the bar in which an entry order is filled (the entry bar). It is the final bar of a setup. 
smaller time frame (STF)
 A chart covering the same amount of time as the current chart, but having more bars. For example, compared to
the day session 5 minute Emini chart on an average day, examples of smaller time frame charts include a 1 minute chart, a tick chart with 500
ticks per bar, and a volume chart with 1,000 contracts per bar (each of these charts usually has more than 200 bars on an average day,
compared to the 81 bars on the 5 minute chart). 
smart traders
 Consistently profitable traders who are usually trading large positions and are generally on the right side of the market. 
spike and channel
 A breakout into a trend in which the follow-through is in the form of a channel where the momentum is less and there is
two-sided trading taking place. 
stair
 A push to a new extreme in a trending trading range trend or a broad channel trend where there is a series of three or more trending
swings that resembles a sloping trading range and is roughly contained in a channel. After the breakout, there is a breakout pullback that
retraces at least slightly into the prior trading range, which is not a requirement of other trending trading ranges. Two-way trading is taking
place but one side is in slightly more control, accounting for the slope. 
STF
 See 
smaller time frame (STF)
. 
strong bulls and bears
 Institutional traders and their cumulative buying and selling determine the direction of the market. 
success
 Refers to traders achieving their objective. Their profit target was reached before their protective stop was hit. 
swing
 A smaller trend that breaks a trend line of any size; the term is used only when there are at least two on the chart. They can occur within
a larger trend or in a sideways market. 
swing high
 A bar that looks like a spike up on the chart and extends up beyond the neighboring bars. Its high is at or above that of the bar
before it and that of the bar after it. 
swing high/low
 Either a swing high or a swing low. 
swing low
 A bar that looks like a spike down on the chart and extends down beyond the neighboring bars. Its low is at or below that of the bar
before it and that of the bar after it. 
swing point
 Either a swing high or a swing low. 
swing trade
 For a day trader using a short-term intraday chart like the 5 minute, it is any trade that lasts longer than a scalp and that the
trader will hold through one or more pullbacks. For a trader using higher time frame charts, it is a trade that lasts for hours to several days.
Typically, at least part of the trade is held without a profit target, since the trader is hoping for an extended move. The potential reward is
usually at least as large as the risk. Small swing trades are called scalps by many traders. In the Emini, when the average range is about 10 to
15 points, a swing trade is usually any trade where the goal is four or more points. 
test
 When the market approaches a prior price of significance and can overshoot or undershoot the target. The term 
failed test
 is used to

mean opposite things by different traders. Most traders believe that if the market then reverses, the test was successful, and if it does not and
the move continues beyond the test area, the test failed and a breakout has occurred. 
three pushes
 Three swing highs where each swing high is usually higher or three swing lows where each swing low is usually lower. It trades
the same as a wedge and should be considered a variant. When it is part of a flag, the move can be mostly horizontal and each push does not
have to extend beyond the prior one. For example, in a wedge bull flag or any other type of triangle, the second push down can be at, above,
or below the first, and the third push down can be at, above, or below either the second or the first, or both. 
tick
 The smallest unit of price movement. For most stocks, it is one penny; for 10-Year U.S. Treasury Note Futures, it is 1/64th of a point; and
for Eminis, it is 0.25 points. On tick charts and on time and sales tables, a tick is every trade that takes place no matter the size and even if
there is no price change. If you look at a time and sales table, every trade is counted as one tick when TradeStation charting software creates
a tick chart. 
tight channel
 A channel where the trend line and trend channel line are close together, and the pullbacks are small and last for only one to
three bars. 
tight trading range
 A trading range of two or more bars with lots of overlap in the bars and in which most reversals are too small to trade
profitably with stop entries. The bulls and bears are in balance. 
time frame
 The length of time contained in one bar on the chart (a 5 minute time frame is made of bars that close every five minutes). It can
also refer to bars not based on time, such as those based on volume or the number of ticks traded. 
tradable
 A setup that you believe has a reasonable chance of leading to at least a scalper's profit. 
trader's equation
 To take a trade, you must believe that the probability of success times the potential reward is greater than the probability of
failure times the risk. You set the reward and risk because the potential reward is the distance to your profit target and the risk is the distance
to your stop. The difficulty in solving the equation is assigning a value to the probability, which can never be known with certainty. As a
guideline, if you are uncertain, assume that you have a 50 percent chance of winning or losing, and if you are confident, assume that you have
a 60 percent chance of winning and a 40 percent chance of losing. 
trading range
 The minimum requirement is a single bar with a range that is largely overlapped by the bar before it. It is sideways movement
and neither the bull nor the bears are in control, although one side is often stronger. It is often a pullback in a trend where the pullback has
lasted long enough to lose most of its certainty. In other words, traders have become uncertain about the direction of the breakout in the short
term, and the market will have repeated breakout attempts up and down that will fail. It will usually ultimately break out in the direction of the
trend, and is a pullback on a higher time frame chart. 
trailing a stop
 As the trade becomes increasingly profitable, traders will often move, or trail, the protective stop to protect more of their open
profit. For example, if they are long in a bull trend, every time the market moves to a new high, they might raise the protective stop to just below
the most recent higher low. 
trap
 An entry that immediately reverses to the opposite direction before a scalper's profit target is reached, trapping traders in their new
position and ultimately forcing them to cover at a loss. It can also scare traders out of a good trade. 
trapped in a trade
 A trader with an open loss on a trade that did not result in a scalper's profit, and if there is a pullback beyond the entry or
signal bars, the trader will likely exit with a loss. 
trapped out of a trade
 A pullback that scares a trader into exiting a trade, but then the pullback fails. The move quickly resumes in the
direction of the trade, making it difficult emotionally for the trader to get back in at the worse price that is now available. The trader will have to
chase the market. 
trend
 A series of price changes that are either mostly up (a bull trend) or down (a bear trend). There are three loosely defined smaller
versions: swings, legs, and pullbacks. A chart will show only one or two major trends. If there are more, one of the other terms is more
appropriate. 
trend bar
 A bar with a body, which means that the close was above or below the open, indicating that there is at least a minor price
movement. 
trend channel line
 A line in the direction of the trend but drawn on the opposite side of the bars compared to a trend line. A bull trend channel
line is above the highs and rising to the right, and a bear trend channel line is below the lows and falling to the right. 
trend channel line overshoot
 One or more bars penetrating a trend channel line. 
trend channel line undershoot
 A bar approaches a trend channel line but the market reverses away from the line without reaching or
penetrating it. 
trend from the open
 A trend that begins at the first or one of the first bars of the day and extends for many bars without a pullback, and the
start of the trend remains as one of the extremes of the day for much if not all of the day. 
trending closes
 Three or more bars where the closes are trending. In a bull trend, each close is above the prior close, and in a bear trend,
each close is lower. If the pattern extends for many bars, there can be one or two bars where the closes are not trending. 
trending highs or lows
 The same as trending closes except based on the highs or lows of the bars. 
trending swings
 Three or more swings where the swing highs and lows are both higher than the prior swing highs and lows (trending bull
swings), or both lower (trending bear swings). 
trending trading ranges
 Two or more trading ranges separated by a breakout. 
trend line
 A line drawn in the direction of the trend; it is sloped up and is below the bars in a bull trend, and it is sloped down and is above the
bars in a bear trend. Most often, it is constructed from either swing highs or swing lows but can be based on linear regression or just a best fit
(eyeballing). 
trend reversal
 A trend change from up to down or down to up, or from a trend to a trading range. 
20 moving average gap bars
 Twenty or more consecutive bars that have not touched the moving average. Once the market finally touches
the moving average, it usually creates a setup for a test of the trend's extreme. 
undershoot
 The market approaches but does not reach a prior price of significance like a swing point or a trend line. 
unlikely
 At most 40 percent certain. 
unreasonable
 A setup with an unfavorable trader's equation. 
usually
 At least 60 percent certain. 
vacuum
 A buy vacuum occurs when the strong bears believe that the price will soon be higher so they wait to short until it reaches some
magnet above the market. The result is that there is a vacuum that sucks the market quickly up to the magnet in the form of one or more bull
trend bars. Once there, the strong bears sell aggressively and turn the market down. A sell vacuum occurs when the strong bulls believe that

the market will soon be lower so they wait to buy until it falls to some magnet below the market. The result is that there is a vacuum that sucks
the market down quickly to the magnet in the form of one or more bear trend bars. Once there, strong bulls buy aggressively and turn the
market back up. 
wedge
 Traditionally, a three-push move with each push extending further and the trend line and trend channel line at least minimally
convergent, creating a rising or descending triangle with a wedge shape. For a trader, the wedge shape increases the chances of a
successful trade, but any three-push pattern trades like a wedge and can be considered one. A wedge can be a reversal pattern or a pullback
in a trend (a bull or bear flag). 
wedge flag
 A wedge-shaped or three-push pullback in a trend, such as a high 3 in a bull trend (a type of bull flag) or a low 3 in a bear trend (a
type of bear flag). Since it is a with-trend setup, enter on the first signal. 
wedge reversal
 A wedge that is reversing a bull trend into a bear trend or a bear trend into a bull trend. Since it is countertrend, unless it is
very strong, it is better to take a second signal. For example, if there is a bear trend and then a descending wedge, wait for a breakout above
this potential wedge bottom and then try to buy a pullback to a higher low. 
with trend
 Refers to a trade or a setup that is in the direction of the prevailing trend. In general, the direction of the most recent 5 minute chart
signal should be assumed to be the trend's direction. Also, if most of the past 10 or 20 bars are above the moving average, trend setups and
trades are likely on the buy side.

Introduction
There is a reason why there is no other comprehensive book about price action written by a trader. It takes thousands of hours, and the financial
reward is meager compared to that from trading. However, with my three girls now away in grad school, I have a void to fill and this has been a very
satisfying project. I originally planned on updating the first edition of 
Reading Price Charts Bar by Bar
 (John Wiley & Sons, 2009), but as I got into
it, I decided instead to go into great detail about how I view and trade the markets. I am metaphorically teaching you how to play the violin.
Everything you need to know to make a living at it is in these books, but it is up to you to spend the countless hours learning your trade. After a year
of answering thousands of questions from traders on my website at 
www.brookspriceaction.com
, I think that I have found ways to express my ideas
much more clearly, and these books should be easier to read than that one. The earlier book focused on reading price action, and this series of
books is instead centered on how to use price action to trade the markets. Since the book grew to more than four times as many words as the first
book, John Wiley & Sons decided to divide it into three separate books. This first book covers price action basics and trends. The second book is
on trading ranges, order management, and the mathematics of trading, and the final book is about trend reversals, day trading, daily charts,
options, and the best setups for all time frames. Many of the charts are also in 
Reading Price Charts Bar by Bar
, but most have been updated and
the discussion about the charts has also been largely rewritten. Only about 5 percent of the 120,000 words from that book are present in the
570,000 words in this new series, so readers will find little duplication.
My goals in writing this series of three books are to describe my understanding of why the carefully selected trades offer great risk/reward ratios,
and to present ways to profit from the setups. I am presenting material that I hope will be interesting to professional traders and students in
business school, but I also hope that even traders starting out will find some useful ideas. Everyone looks at price charts but usually just briefly and
with a specific or limited goal. However, every chart has an incredible amount of information that can be used to make profitable trades, but much
of it can be used effectively only if traders spend time to carefully understand what each bar on the chart is telling them about what institutional
money is doing.
Ninety percent or more of all trading in large markets is done by institutions, which means that the market is simply a collection of institutions.
Almost all are profitable over time, and the few that are not soon go out of business. Since institutions are profitable and they are the market, every
trade that you take has a profitable trader (a part of the collection of institutions) taking the other side of your trade. No trade can take place without
one institution willing to take one side and another willing to take the other. The small-volume trades made by individuals can only take place if an
institution is willing to take the same trade. If you want to buy at a certain price, the market will not get to that price unless one or more institutions
also want to buy at that price. You cannot sell at any price unless one or more institutions are willing to sell there, because the market can only go to
a price where there are institutions willing to buy and others willing to sell. If the Emini is at 1,264 and you are long with a protective sell stop at
1,262, your stop cannot get hit unless there is an institution who is also willing to sell at 1,262. This is true for virtually all trades.
If you trade 200 Emini contracts, then you are trading institutional volume and are effectively an institution, and you will sometimes be able to
move the market a tick or two. Most individual traders, however, have no ability to move the market, no matter how stupidly they are willing to trade.
The market will not run your stops. The market might test the price where your protective stop is, but it has nothing to do with your stop. It will only
test that price if one or more institutions believe that it is financially sound to sell there and other institutions believe that it is profitable to buy there.
At every tick, there are institutions buying and other institutions selling, and all have proven systems that will make money by placing those trades.
You should always be trading in the direction of the majority of institutional dollars because they control where the market is heading.
At the end of the day when you look at a printout of the day's chart, how can you tell what the institutions did during the day? The answer is simple:
whenever the market went up, the bulk of institutional money was buying, and whenever the market went down, more money went into selling. Just
look at any segment of the chart where the market went up or down and study every bar, and you will soon notice many repeatable patterns. With
time, you will begin to see those patterns unfold in real time, and that will give you confidence to place your trades. Some of the price action is
subtle, so be open to every possibility. For example, sometimes when the market is working higher, a bar will trade below the low of the prior bar,
yet the trend continues higher. You have to assume that the big money was buying at and below the low of that prior bar, and that is also what many
experienced traders were doing. They bought exactly where weak traders let themselves get stopped out with a loss or where other weak traders
shorted, believing that the market was beginning to sell off. Once you get comfortable with the idea that strong trends often have pullbacks and big
money is buying them rather than selling them, you will be in a position to make some great trades that you previously thought were exactly the
wrong thing to do. Don't think too hard about it. If the market is going up, institutions are buying constantly, even at times when you think that you
should stop yourself out of your long with a loss. Your job is to follow their behavior and not use too much logic to deny what is happening right in
front of you. It does not matter if it seems counterintuitive. All that matters is that the market is going up and therefore institutions are predominantly
buying and so should you.
Institutions are generally considered to be smart money, meaning that they are smart enough to make a living by trading and they trade a large
volume every day. Television still uses the term 
institution
 to refer to traditional institutions like mutual funds, banks, brokerage houses, insurance
companies, pension funds, and hedge funds; these companies used to account for most of the volume, and they mostly trade on fundamentals.
Their trading controls the direction of the market on daily and weekly charts and a lot of the big intraday swings. Until a decade or so ago, most of
the trade decisions were made and most trading was done by very smart traders, but it is now increasingly being done by computers. They have
programs that can instantly analyze economic data and immediately place trades based on that analysis, without a person ever being involved in
the trade. In addition, other firms trade huge volumes by using computer programs that place trades based on the statistical analysis of price
action. Computer-generated trading now accounts for as much as 70 percent of the day's volume.
Computers are very good at making decisions, and playing chess and winning at 
Jeopardy!
 are more difficult than trading stocks. Gary
Kasparov for years made the best chess decisions in the world, yet a computer made better decisions in 1997 and beat him. Ken Jennings was
heralded as the greatest 
Jeopardy!
 player of all time, yet a computer destroyed him in 2011. It is only a matter of time before computers are widely
accepted as the best decision makers for institutional trading.
Since programs use objective mathematical analysis, there should be a tendency for support and resistance areas to become more clearly
defined. For example, measured move projections should become more precise as more of the volume is traded based on precise mathematical
logic. Also, there might be a tendency toward more protracted tight channels as programs buy small pullbacks on the daily chart. However, if
enough programs exit longs or go short at the same key levels, sell-offs might become larger and faster. Will the changes be dramatic? Probably
not, since the same general forces were operating when everything was done manually, but nonetheless there should be some move toward
mathematical perfection as more of the emotion is removed from trading. As these other firms contribute more and more to the movement of the

market and as traditional institutions increasingly use computers to analyze and place their trades, the term 
institution
 is becoming vague. It is
better for an individual trader to think of an institution as any of the different entities that trade enough volume to be a significant contributor to the
price action.
Since these buy and sell programs generate most of the volume, they are the most important contributor to the appearance of every chart and
they create most of the trading opportunities for individual investors. Yes, it's nice to know that Cisco Systems (CSCO) had a strong earnings report
and is moving up, and if you are an investor who wants to hold stock for many months, then do what the traditional institutions are doing and buy
CSCO. However, if you are a day trader, ignore the news and look at the chart, because the programs will create patterns that are purely
statistically based and have nothing to do with fundamentals, yet offer great trading opportunities. The traditional institutions placing trades based
on fundamentals determine the direction and the approximate target of a stock over the next several months, but, increasingly, firms using statistical
analysis to make day trades and other short-term trades determine the path to that target and the ultimate high or low of the move. Even on a macro
level, fundamentals are only approximate at best. Look at the crashes in 1987 and 2009. Both had violent sell-offs and rallies, yet the fundamentals
did not change violently in the same short period of time. In both cases, the market got sucked slightly below the monthly trend line and reversed
sharply up from it. The market fell because of perceived fundamentals, but the extent of the fall was determined by the charts.
There are some large patterns that repeat over and over on all time frames and in all markets, like trends, trading ranges, climaxes, and
channels. There are also lots of smaller tradable patterns that are based on just the most recent few bars. These books are a comprehensive guide
to help traders understand everything they see on a chart, giving them more opportunities to make profitable trades and to avoid losers.
The most important message that I can deliver is to focus on the absolute best trades, avoid the absolute worst setups, use a profit objective
(reward) that is at least as large as your protective stop (risk), and work on increasing the number of shares that you are trading. I freely recognize
that every one of my reasons behind each setup is just my opinion, and my reasoning about why a trade works might be completely wrong.
However, that is irrelevant. What is important is that reading price action is a very effective way to trade, and I have thought a lot about why certain
things happen the way they do. I am comfortable with my explanations and they give me confidence when I place a trade; however, they are
irrelevant to my placing trades, so it is not important to me that they are right. Just as I can reverse my opinion about the direction of the market in
an instant, I can also reverse my opinion about why a particular pattern works if I come across a reason that is more logical or if I discover a flaw in
my logic. I am providing the opinions because they appear to make sense, they might help readers become more comfortable trading certain
setups, and they might be intellectually stimulating, but they are not needed for any price action trades.
The books are very detailed and difficult to read and are directed toward serious traders who want to learn as much as they can about reading
price charts. However, the concepts are useful to traders at all levels. The books cover many of the standard techniques described by Robert D.
Edwards and John Magee (
Technical Analysis of Stock Trends
, AMACOM, 9th ed., 2007) and others, but focus more on individual bars to
demonstrate how the information they provide can significantly enhance the risk/reward ratio of trading. Most books point out three or four trades on
a chart, which implies that everything else on the chart is incomprehensible, meaningless, or risky. I believe that there is something to be learned
from every tick that takes place during the day and that there are far more great trades on every chart than just the few obvious ones; but to see
them, you have to understand price action and you cannot dismiss any bars as unimportant. I learned from performing thousands of operations
through a microscope that some of the most important things can be very small.
I read charts bar by bar and look for any information that each bar is telling me. They are all important. At the end of every bar, most traders ask
themselves, “What just took place?” With most bars, they conclude that there is nothing worth trading at the moment so it is just not worth the effort
to try to understand. Instead, they choose to wait for some clearer and usually larger pattern. It is as if they believe that the bar did not exist, or they
dismiss it as just institutional program activity that is not tradable by an individual trader. They do not feel like they are part of the market at these
times, but these times constitute the vast majority of the day. Yet, if they look at the volume, all of those bars that they are ignoring have as much
volume as the bars they are using for the bases for their trades. Clearly, a lot of trading is taking place, but they don't understand how that can be
and essentially pretend that it does not exist. But that is denying reality. There is always trading taking place, and as a trader, you owe it to yourself
to understand why it's taking place and to figure out a way to make money off of it. Learning what the market is telling you is very time-consuming
and difficult, but it gives you the foundation that you need to be a successful trader.
Unlike most books on candle charts where the majority of readers feel compelled to memorize patterns, these three books of mine provide a
rationale for why particular patterns are reliable setups for traders. Some of the terms used have specific meaning to market technicians but
different meanings to traders, and I am writing this entirely from a trader's perspective. I am certain that many traders already understand everything
in these books, but likely wouldn't describe price action in the same way that I do. There are no secrets among successful traders; they all know
common setups, and many have their own names for each one. All of them are buying and selling pretty much at the same time, catching the same
swings, and they all have their own reasons for getting into a trade. Many trade price action intuitively without ever feeling a need to articulate why a
certain setup works. I hope that they enjoy reading my understanding of and perspective on price action and that this gives them some insights that
will improve their already successful trading.
The goal for most traders is to maximize trading profits through a style that is compatible with their personalities. Without that compatibility, I
believe that it is virtually impossible to trade profitably for the long term. Many traders wonder how long it will take them to be successful and are
willing to lose money for some period of time, even a few years. However, it took me over 10 years to be able to trade successfully. Each of us has
many considerations and distractions, so the time will vary, but a trader has to work though most obstacles before becoming consistently profitable.
I had several major problems that had to be corrected, including raising three wonderful daughters who always filled my mind with thoughts of them
and what I needed to be doing as their father. That was solved as they got older and more independent. Then it took me a long time to accept many
personality traits as real and unchangeable (or at least I concluded that I was unwilling to change them). And finally there was the issue of
confidence. I have always been confident to the point of arrogance in so many things that those who know me would be surprised that this was
difficult for me. However, deep inside I believed that I really would never come up with a consistently profitable approach that I would enjoy
employing for many years. Instead, I bought many systems, wrote and tested countless indicators and systems, read many books and magazines,
went to seminars, hired tutors, and joined chat rooms. I talked with people who presented themselves as successful traders, but I never saw their
account statements and suspect that most could teach but few, if any, could trade. Usually in trading, those who know don't talk and those who talk
don't know.
This was all extremely helpful because it showed all of the things that I needed to avoid before becoming successful. Any nontrader who looks at
a chart will invariably conclude that trading has to be extremely easy, and that is part of the appeal. At the end of the day, anyone can look at any
chart and see very clear entry and exit points. However, it is much more difficult to do it in real time. There is a natural tendency to want to buy the
exact low and never have the trade come back. If it does, a novice will take the loss to avoid a bigger loss, resulting in a series of losing trades that
will ultimately bust the trader's account. Using wide stops solves that to some extent, but invariably traders will soon hit a few big losses that will put

them into the red and make them too scared to continue using that approach.
Should you be concerned that making the information in these books available will create lots of great price action traders, all doing the same
thing at the same time, thereby removing the late entrants needed to drive the market to your price target? No, because the institutions control the
market and they already have the smartest traders in the world and those traders already know everything in these books, at least intuitively. At
every moment, there is an extremely smart institutional bull taking the opposite side of the trade being placed by an extremely smart institutional
bear. Since the most important players already know price action, having more players know it will not tip the balance one way or the other. I
therefore have no concern that what I am writing will stop price action from working. Because of that balance, any edge that anyone has is always
going to be extremely small, and any small mistake will result in a loss, no matter how well a person reads a chart. Although it is very difficult to
make money as a trader without understanding price action, that knowledge alone is not enough. It takes a long time to learn how to trade 
after
 a
trader learns to read charts, and trading is just as difficult as chart reading. I wrote these books to help people learn to read charts better and to
trade better, and if you can do both well, you deserve to be able to take money from the accounts of others and put it into yours.
The reason why the patterns that we all see do unfold as they do is because that is the appearance that occurs in an efficient market with
countless traders placing orders for thousands of different reasons, but with the controlling volume being traded based on sound logic. That is just
what it looks like, and it has been that way forever. The same patterns unfold in all time frames in all markets around the world, and it would simply
be impossible for all of it to be manipulated instantaneously on so many different levels. Price action is a manifestation of human behavior and
therefore actually has a genetic basis. Until we evolve, it will likely remain largely unchanged, just as it has been unchanged for the 80 years of
charts that I have reviewed. Program trading might have changed the appearance slightly, although I can find no evidence to support that theory. If
anything, it would make the charts smoother because it is unemotional and it has greatly increased the volume. Now that most of the volume is
being traded automatically by computers and the volume is so huge, irrational and emotional behavior is an insignificant component of the markets
and the charts are a purer expression of human tendencies.
Since price action comes from our DNA, it will not change until we evolve. When you look at the two charts in 
Figure I.1
, your first reaction is that
they are just a couple of ordinary charts, but look at the dates at the bottom. These weekly Dow Jones Industrial Average charts from the
Depression era and from World War II have the same patterns that we see today on all charts, despite most of today's volume being traded by
computers.
Figure I.1
 Price Action Has Not Changed over Time
If everyone suddenly became a price action scalper, the smaller patterns might change a little for a while, but over time, the efficient market will
win out and the votes by all traders will get distilled into standard price action patterns because that is the inescapable result of countless people
behaving logically. Also, the reality is that it is very difficult to trade well, and although basing trades on price action is a sound approach, it is still
very difficult to do successfully in real time. There just won't be enough traders doing it well enough, all at the same time, to have any significant
influence over time on the patterns. Just look at Edwards and Magee. The best traders in the world have been using those ideas for decades and
they continue to work, again for the same reason—charts look the way they do because that is the unchangeable fingerprint of an efficient market
filled with a huge number of smart people using a huge number of approaches and time frames, all trying to make the most money that they can.
For example, Tiger Woods is not hiding anything that he does in golf, and anyone is free to copy him. However, very few people can play golf well
enough to make a living at it. The same is true of trading. A trader can know just about everything there is to know and still lose money because
applying all that knowledge in a way that consistently makes money is very difficult to do.
Why do so many business schools continue to recommend Edwards and Magee when their book is essentially simplistic, largely using trend
lines, breakouts, and pullbacks as the basis for trading? It is because it works and it always has and it always will. Now that just about all traders
have computers with access to intraday data, many of those techniques can be adapted to day trading. Also, candle charts give additional
information about who is controlling the market, which results in a more timely entry with smaller risk. Edwards and Magee's focus is on the overall
trend. I use those same basic techniques but pay much closer attention to the individual bars on the chart to improve the risk/reward ratio, and I
devote considerable attention to intraday charts.
It seemed obvious to me that if one could simply read the charts well enough to be able to enter at the exact times when the move would take off
and not come back, then that trader would have a huge advantage. The trader would have a high winning percentage, and the few losses would be
small. I decided that this would be my starting point, and what I discovered was that nothing had to be added. In fact, any additions are distractions
that result in lower profitability. This sounds so obvious and easy that it is difficult for most people to believe.
I am a day trader who relies entirely on price action on the intraday Emini S&P 500 Futures charts, and I believe that reading price action well is
an invaluable skill for all traders. Beginners often instead have a deep-seated belief that something more is required, that maybe some complex
mathematical formula that very few use would give them just the edge that they need. Goldman Sachs is so rich and sophisticated that its traders
must have a supercomputer and high-powered software that gives them an advantage that ensures that all the individual traders are doomed to
failure. They start looking at all kinds of indicators and playing with the inputs to customize the indicators to make them just right. Every indicator
works some of the time, but for me, they obfuscate instead of elucidate. In fact, without even looking at a chart, you can place a buy order and have

a 50 percent chance of being right!
I am not dismissing indicators and systems out of ignorance of their subtleties. I have spent over 10,000 hours writing and testing indicators and
systems over the years, and that probably is far more experience than most have. This extensive experience with indicators and systems was an
essential part of my becoming a successful trader. Indicators work well for many traders, but the best success comes once a trader finds an
approach that is compatible with his or her personality. My single biggest problem with indicators and systems was that I never fully trusted them. At
every setup, I saw exceptions that needed to be tested. I always wanted every last penny out of the market and was never satisfied with a return
from a system if I could incorporate a new twist that would make it better. You can optimize constantly, but, since the market is always changing
from strong trends to tight trading ranges and then back again and your optimizations are based on what has recently happened, they will soon fail
as the market transitions into a new phase. I am simply too controlling, compulsive, restless, observant, and untrusting to make money in the long
term off indicators or automated systems, but I am at the extreme in many ways and most people don't have these same issues.
Many traders, especially beginners, are drawn to indicators (or any other higher power, guru, TV pundit, or newsletter that they want to believe will
protect them and show their love and approval of them as human beings by giving them lots of money), hoping that an indicator will show them when
to enter a trade. What they don't realize is that the vast majority of indicators are based on simple price action, and when I am placing trades, I
simply cannot think fast enough to process what several indicators might be telling me. If there is a bull trend, a pullback, and then a rally to a new
high, but the rally has lots of overlapping bars, many bear bodies, a couple of small pullbacks, and prominent tails on the tops of the bars, any
experienced trader would see that it is a weak test of the trend high and that this should not be happening if the bull trend was still strong. The
market is almost certainly transitioning into a trading range and possibly into a bear trend. Traders don't need an oscillator to tell them this. Also,
oscillators tend to make traders look for reversals and focus less on price charts. These can be effective tools on most days when the market has
two or three reversals lasting an hour or more. The problem comes when the market is trending strongly. If you focus too much on your indicators,
you will see that they are forming divergences all day long and you might find yourself repeatedly entering countertrend and losing money. By the
time you come to accept that the market is trending, you will not have enough time left in the day to recoup your losses. Instead, if you were simply
looking at a bar or candle chart, you would see that the market is clearly trending and you would not be tempted by indicators to look for trend
reversals. The most common successful reversals first break a trend line with strong momentum and then pull back to test the extreme, and if
traders focus too much on divergences, they will often overlook this fundamental fact. Placing a trade because of a divergence in the absence of a
prior countertrend momentum surge that breaks a trend line is a losing strategy. Wait for the trend line break and then see if the test of the old
extreme reverses or if the old trend resumes. You do not need an indicator to tell you that a strong reversal here is a high-probability trade, at least
for a scalp, and there will almost certainly be a divergence, so why complicate your thinking by adding the indicator to your calculus?
Some pundits recommend a combination of time frames, indicators, wave counting, and Fibonacci retracements and extensions, but when it
comes time to place the trade, they will do it only if there is a good price action setup. Also, when they see a good price action setup, they start
looking for indicators that show divergences, different time frames for moving average tests, wave counts, or Fibonacci setups to confirm what is in
front of them. In reality, they are price action traders who are trading exclusively off price action on only one chart but don't feel comfortable
admitting it. They are complicating their trading to the point that they certainly are missing many, many trades because their overanalysis takes too
much time for them to place their orders and they are forced to wait for the next setup. The logic just isn't there for making the simple so
complicated. Obviously, adding any information can lead to better decision making and many people might be able to process lots of inputs when
deciding whether to place a trade. Ignoring data because of a simplistic ideology alone is foolish. The goal is to make money, and traders should
do everything they can to maximize their profits. I simply cannot process multiple indicators and time frames well in the time needed to place my
orders accurately, and I find that carefully reading a single chart is far more profitable for me. Also, if I rely on indicators, I find that I get lazy in my
price action reading and often miss the obvious. Price action is far more important than any other information, and if you sacrifice some of what it is
telling you to gain information from something else, you are likely making a bad decision.
One of the most frustrating things for traders when they are starting out is that everything is so subjective. They want to find a clear set of rules that
guarantee a profit, and they hate how a pattern works on one day but fails on another. Markets are very efficient because you have countless very
smart people playing a zero-sum game. For a trader to make money, he has to be consistently better than about half of the other traders out there.
Since most of the competitors are profitable institutions, a trader has to be very good. Whenever an edge exists, it is quickly discovered and it
disappears. Remember, someone has to be taking the opposite side of your trade. It won't take them long to figure out your magical system, and
once they do, they will stop giving you money. Part of the appeal of trading is that it is a zero-sum game with very small edges, and it is intellectually
satisfying and financially rewarding to be able to spot and capitalize on these small, fleeting opportunities. It can be done, but it is very hard work
and it requires relentless discipline. Discipline simply means doing what you do not want to do. We are all intellectually curious and we have a
natural tendency to try new or different things, but the very best traders resist the temptation. You have to stick to your rules and avoid emotion, and
you have to patiently wait to take only the best trades. This all appears easy to do when you look at a printed chart at the end of the day, but it is very
difficult in real time as you wait bar by bar, and sometimes hour by hour. Once a great setup appears, if you are distracted or lulled into
complacency, you will miss it and you will then be forced to wait even longer. But if you can develop the patience and the discipline to follow a sound
system, the profit potential is huge.
There are countless ways to make money trading stocks and Eminis, but all require movement (well, except for shorting options). If you learn to
read the charts, you will catch a great number of these profitable trades every day without ever knowing why some institution started the trend and
without ever knowing what any indicator is showing. You don't need these institutions’ software or analysts because they will show you what they are
doing. All you have to do is piggyback onto their trades and you will make a profit. Price action will tell you what they are doing and allow you an
early entry with a tight stop.
I have found that I consistently make far more money by minimizing what I have to consider when placing a trade. All I need is a single chart on my
laptop computer with no indicators except a 20-bar exponential moving average (EMA), which does not require too much analysis and clarifies
many good setups each day. Some traders might also look at volume because an unusually large volume spike sometimes comes near the end of
a bear trend, and the next new swing low or two often provide profitable long scalps. Volume spikes also sometimes occur on daily charts when a
sell-off is overdone. However, it is not reliable enough to warrant my attention.
Many traders consider price action only when trading divergences and trend pullbacks. In fact, most traders using indicators won't take a trade
unless there is a strong signal bar, and many would enter on a strong signal bar if the context was right, even if there was no divergence. They like
to see a strong close on a large reversal bar, but in reality this is a fairly rare occurrence. The most useful tools for understanding price action are
trend lines and trend channel lines, prior highs and lows, breakouts and failed breakouts, the sizes of bodies and tails on candles, and relationships
between the current bar to the prior several bars. In particular, how the open, high, low, and close of the current bar compare to the action of the
prior several bars tells a lot about what will happen next. Charts provide far more information about who is in control of the market than most traders

realize. Almost every bar offers important clues as to where the market is going, and a trader who dismisses any activity as noise is passing up
many profitable trades each day. Most of the observations in these books are directly related to placing trades, but a few have to do with simple
curious price action tendencies without sufficient dependability to be the basis for a trade.
I personally rely mainly on candle charts for my Emini, futures, and stock trading, but most signals are also visible on any type of chart and many
are even evident on simple line charts. I focus primarily on 5 minute candle charts to illustrate basic principles but also discuss daily and weekly
charts as well. Since I also trade stocks, forex, Treasury note futures, and options, I discuss how price action can be used as the basis for this type
of trading.
As a trader, I see everything in shades of gray and am constantly thinking in terms of probabilities. If a pattern is setting up and is not perfect but
is reasonably similar to a reliable setup, it will likely behave similarly as well. Close is usually close enough. If something resembles a textbook
setup, the trade will likely unfold in a way that is similar to the trade from the textbook setup. This is the art of trading and it takes years to become
good at trading in the gray zone. Everyone wants concrete, clear rules or indicators, and chat rooms, newsletters, hotlines, or tutors that will tell them
when exactly to get in to minimize risk and maximize profit, but none of it works in the long run. You have to take responsibility for your decisions,
but you first have to learn how to make them and that means that you have to get used to operating in the gray fog. Nothing is ever as clear as black
and white, and I have been doing this long enough to appreciate that anything, no matter how unlikely, can and will happen. It's like quantum physics.
Every conceivable event has a probability, and so do events that you have yet to consider. It is not emotional, and the reasons why something
happens are irrelevant. Watching to see if the Federal Reserve cuts rates today is a waste of time because there is both a bullish and bearish
interpretation of anything that the Fed does. What is key is to see what the market does, not what the Fed does.
If you think about it, trading is a zero-sum game and it is impossible to have a zero-sum game where rules consistently work. If they worked,
everyone would use them and then there would be no one on the other side of the trade. Therefore, the trade could not exist. Guidelines are very
helpful but reliable rules cannot exist, and this is usually very troubling to a trader starting out who wants to believe that trading is a game that can be
very profitable if only you can come up with just the right set of rules. All rules work some of the time, and usually just often enough to fool you into
believing that you just need to tweak them a little to get them to work all of the time. You are trying to create a trading god who will protect you, but
you are fooling yourself and looking for an easy solution to a game where only hard solutions work. You are competing against the smartest people
in the world, and if you are smart enough to come up with a foolproof rule set, so are they, and then everyone is faced with the zero-sum game
dilemma. You cannot make money trading unless you are flexible, because you need to go where the market is going, and the market is extremely
flexible. It can bend in every direction and for much longer than most would ever imagine. It can also reverse repeatedly every few bars for a long,
long time. Finally, it can and will do everything in between. Never get upset by this, and just accept it as reality and admire it as part of the beauty of
the game.
The market gravitates toward uncertainty. During most of the day, every market has a directional probability of 50–50 of an equidistant move up
or down. By that I mean that if you don't even look at a chart and you buy any stock and then place a one cancels the other (OCO) order to exit on a
profit-taking limit order X cents above your entry or on a protective stop at X cents below your entry, you have about a 50 percent chance of being
right. Likewise, if you sell any stock at any point in the day without looking at a chart and then place a profit-taking limit order X cents lower and a
protective stop X cents higher, you have about a 50 percent chance of winning and about a 50 percent chance of losing. There is the obvious
exception of X being too large relative the price of the stock. You can't have X be $60 in a $50 stock, because you would have a 0 percent chance
of losing $60. You also can't have X be $49, because the odds of losing $49 would also be minuscule. But if you pick a value for X that is within
reasonable reach on your time frame, this is generally true. When the market is 50–50, it is uncertain and you cannot rationally have an opinion
about its direction. This is the hallmark of a trading range, so whenever you are uncertain, assume that the market is in a trading range. There are
brief times on a chart when the directional probability is higher. During a strong trend, it might be 60 or even 70 percent, but that cannot last long
because it will gravitate toward uncertainty and a 50–50 market where both the bulls and bears feel there is value. When there is a trend and some
level of directional certainty, the market will also gravitate toward areas of support and resistance, which are usually some type of measured move
away, and those areas are invariably where uncertainty returns and a trading range develops, at least briefly.
Never watch the news during the trading day. If you want to know what a news event means, the chart in front of you will tell you. Reporters believe
that the news is the most important thing in the world, and that everything that happens has to be caused by their biggest news story of the day.
Since reporters are in the news business, news must be the center of the universe and the cause of everything that happens in the financial
markets. When the stock market sold off in mid-March 2011, they attributed it to the earthquake in Japan. It did not matter to them that the market
began to sell off three weeks earlier, after a buy climax. I told the members of my chat room in late February that the odds were good that the
market was going to have a significant correction when I saw 15 consecutive bull trend bars on the daily chart after a protracted bull run. This was
an unusually strong buy climax, and an important statement by the market. I had no idea that an earthquake was going to happen in a few weeks,
and did not need to know that, anyway. The chart was telling me what traders were doing; they were getting ready to exit their longs and initiate
shorts.
Television experts are also useless. Invariably when the market makes a huge move, the reporter will find some confident, convincing expert who
predicted it and interview him or her, leading the viewers to believe that this pundit has an uncanny ability to predict the market, despite the untold
reality that this same pundit has been wrong in his last 10 predictions. The pundit then makes some future prediction and naïve viewers will attach
significance to it and let it affect their trading. What the viewers may not realize is that some pundits are bullish 100 percent of the time and others
are bearish 100 percent of the time, and still others just swing for the fences all the time and make outrageous predictions. The reporter just rushes
to the one who is consistent with the day's news, which is totally useless to traders and in fact it is destructive because it can influence their trading
and make them question and deviate from their own methods. No one is ever consistently right more than 60 percent of the time on these major
predictions, and just because pundits are convincing does not make them reliable. There are equally smart and convincing people who believe the
opposite but are not being heard. This is the same as watching a trial and listening to only the defense side of the argument. Hearing only one side
is always convincing and always misleading, and rarely better than 50 percent reliable.
Institutional bulls and bears are placing trades all the time, and that is why there is constant uncertainty about the direction of the market. Even in
the absence of breaking news, the business channels air interviews all day long and each reporter gets to pick one pundit for her report. What you
have to realize is that she has a 50–50 chance of picking the right one in terms of the market's direction over the next hour or so. If you decide to
rely on the pundit to make a trading decision and he says that the market will sell off after midday and instead it just keeps going up, are you going
to look to short? Should you believe this very convincing head trader at one of Wall Street's top firms? He obviously is making over a million dollars
a year and they would not pay him that much unless he was able to correctly and consistently predict the market's direction. In fact, he probably can
and he is probably a good stock picker, but he almost certainly is not a day trader. It is foolish to believe that just because he can make 15 percent
annually managing money he can correctly predict the market's direction over the next hour or two. Do the math. If he had that ability, he would be

making 1 percent two or three times a day and maybe 1,000 percent a year. Since he is not, you know that he does not have that ability. His time
frame is months and yours is minutes. Since he is unable to make money by day trading, why would you ever want to make a trade based on
someone who is a proven failure as a day trader? He has shown you that he cannot make money by day trading by the simple fact that he is not a
successful day trader. That immediately tells you that if he day trades, he loses money because if he was successful at it, that is what he would
choose to do and he would make far more than he is currently making. Even if you are holding trades for months at a time in an attempt to duplicate
the results of his fund, it is still foolish to take his advice, because he might change his mind next week and you would never know it. Managing a
trade once you are in is just as important as placing the trade. If you are following the pundit and hope to make 15 percent a year like he does, you
need to follow his management, but you have no ability to do so and you will lose over time employing this strategy. Yes, you will make an
occasional great trade, but you can simply do that by randomly buying any stock. The key is whether the approach makes money over 100 trades,
not over the first one or two. Follow the advice that you give your kids: don't fool yourself into believing that what you see on television is real, no
matter how polished and convincing it appears to be.
As I said, there will be pundits who will see the news as bullish and others who will see it as bearish, and the reporter gets to pick one for her
report. Are you going to let a reporter make trading decisions for you? That's insane! If that reporter could trade, she would be a trader and make
hundreds of times more money than she is making as a reporter. Why would you ever allow her to influence your decision making? You might do so
only out of a lack of confidence in your ability, or perhaps you are searching for a father figure who will love and protect you. If you are prone to be
influenced by a reporter's decision, you should not take the trade. The pundit she chooses is not your father, and he will not protect you or your
money. Even if the reporter picks a pundit who is correct on the direction, that pundit will not stay with you to manage your trade, and you will likely
be stopped out with a loss on a pullback.
Financial news stations do not exist to provide public service. They are in business to make money, and that means they need as large an
audience as possible to maximize their advertising income. Yes, they want to be accurate in their reporting, but their primary objective is to make
money. They are fully aware that they can maximize their audience size only if they are pleasing to watch. That means that they have to have
interesting guests, including some who will make outrageous predictions, others who are professorial and reassuring, and some who are just
physically attractive; most of them have to have some entertainment value. Although some guests are great traders, they cannot help you. For
example, if they interview one of the world's most successful bond traders, he will usually only speak in general terms about the trend over the next
several months, and he will do so only weeks after he has already placed his trades. If you are a day trader, this does not help you, because every
bull or bear market on the monthly chart has just about as many up moves on the intraday chart as down moves, and there will be long and short
trades every day. His time frame is very different from yours, and his trading has nothing to do with what you are doing. They will also often interview
a chartist from a major Wall Street firm, who, while his credentials are good, will be basing his opinion on a weekly chart, but the viewers are
looking to take profits within a few days. To the chartist, that bull trend that he is recommending buying will still be intact, even if the market falls 10
percent over the next couple of months. The viewers, however, will take their losses long before that, and will never benefit from the new high that
comes three months later. Unless the chartist is addressing your specific goals and time frame, whatever he says is useless. When television
interviews a day trader instead, he will talk about the trades that he already took, and the information is too late to help you make money. By the
time he is on television, the market might already be going in the opposite direction. If he is talking while still in his day trade, he will continue to
manage his trade long after his two-minute interview is over, and he will not manage it while on the air. Even if you enter the trade that he is in, he
will not be there when you invariably will have to make an important decision about getting out as the market turns against you, or as the market
goes in your direction and you are thinking about taking profits. Watching television for trading advice under any circumstances, even after a very
important report, is a sure way to lose money and you should never do it.
Only look at the chart and it will tell you what you need to know. The chart is what will give you money or take money from you, so it is the only thing
that you should ever consider when trading. If you are on the floor, you can't even trust what your best friend is doing. He might be offering a lot of
orange juice calls but secretly having a broker looking to buy 10 times as many below the market. Your friend is just trying to create a panic to drive
the market down so he can load up through a surrogate at a much better price.
Friends and colleagues freely offer opinions for you to ignore. Occasionally traders will tell me that they have a great setup and want to discuss it
with me. I invariably get them angry with me when I tell them that I am not interested. They immediately perceive me as selfish, stubborn, and close-
minded, and when it comes to trading, I am all of that and probably much more. The skills that make you money are generally seen as flaws to the
layperson. Why do I no longer read books or articles about trading, or talk to other traders about their ideas? As I said, the chart tells me all that I
need to know and any other information is a distraction. Several people have been offended by my attitude, but I think in part it comes from me
turning down what they are presenting as something helpful to me when in reality they are making an offering, hoping that I will reciprocate with
some tutoring. They become frustrated and angry when I tell them that I don't want to hear about anyone else's trading techniques. I tell them that I
haven't even mastered my own and probably never will, but I am confident that I will make far more money perfecting what I already know than trying
to incorporate non-price-action approaches into my trading. I ask them if James Galway offered a beautiful flute to Yo-Yo Ma and insisted that Ma
start learning to play the flute because Galway makes so much money by playing his flute, should Ma accept the offer? Clearly not. Ma should
continue to play the cello and by doing so he will make far more money than if he also started playing the flute. I am no Galway or Ma, but the
concept is the same. Price action is the only instrument that I want to play, and I strongly believe that I will make far more money by mastering it than
by incorporating ideas from other successful traders.
The charts, not the experts on television, will tell you exactly how the institutions are interpreting the news.
Yesterday, Costco's earnings were up 32 percent on the quarter and above analysts’ expectations (see 
Figure I.2
). COST gapped up on the
open, tested the gap on the first bar, and then ran up over a dollar in 20 minutes. It then drifted down to test yesterday's close. It had two rallies that
broke bear trend lines, and both failed. This created a double top (bars 2 and 3) bear flag or triple top (bars 1, 2, and 3), and the market then
plunged $3, below the prior day's low. If you were unaware of the report, you would have shorted at the failed bear trend line breaks at bars 2 and 3
and you would have sold more below bar 4, which was a pullback that followed the breakout below yesterday's low. You would have reversed to
long on the bar 5 big reversal bar, which was the second attempt to reverse the breakout below yesterday's low and a climactic reversal of the
breakout of the bottom of the steep bear trend channel line.
Figure I.2
 Ignore the News

Alternatively, you could have bought the open because of the bullish report, and then worried about why the stock was collapsing instead of
soaring the way the TV analysts predicted, and you likely would have sold out your long on the second plunge down to bar 5 with a $2 loss.
Any trend that covers a lot of points in very few bars, meaning that there is some combination of large bars and bars that overlap each other only
minimally, will eventually have a pullback. These trends have such strong momentum that the odds favor resumption of the trend after the pullback
and then a test of the trend's extreme. Usually the extreme will be exceeded, as long as the pullback does not turn into a new trend in the opposite
direction and extend beyond the start of the original trend. In general, the odds that a pullback will get back to the prior trend's extreme fall
substantially if the pullback retraces 75 percent or more. For a pullback in a bear trend, at that point, a trader is better off thinking of the pullback as
a new bull trend rather than a pullback in an old bear trend. Bar 6 was about a 70 percent pullback and then the market tested the climactic bear low
on the open of the next day.
Just because the market gaps up on a news item does not mean that it will continue up, despite how bullish the news is.
As shown in 
Figure I.3
, before the open of bar 1 on both Yahoo! (YHOO) charts (daily on the left, weekly on the right), the news reported that
Microsoft was looking to take over Yahoo! at $31 a share, and the market gapped up almost to that price. Many traders assumed that it had to be a
done deal because Microsoft is one of the best companies in the world and if it wanted to buy Yahoo!, it certainly could make it happen. Not only
that—Microsoft has so much cash that it would likely be willing to sweeten the deal if needed. Well, the CEO of Yahoo! said that his company was
worth more like $40 a share, but Microsoft never countered. The deal slowly evaporated, along with Yahoo!'s price. In October, Yahoo! was 20
percent below the price where it was before the deal was announced and 50 percent lower than on the day of the announcement, and it continues to
fall. So much for strong fundamentals and a takeover offer from a serious suitor. To a price action trader, a huge up move in a bear market is
probably just a bear flag, unless the move is followed by a series of higher lows and higher highs. It could be followed by a bull flag and then more of
a rally, but until the bull trend is confirmed, you must be aware that the larger weekly trend is more important.
Figure I.3
 Markets Can Fall on Bullish News
The only thing that is as it seems is the chart. If you cannot figure out what it is telling you, do not trade. Wait for clarity. It will always come. But
once it is there, you must place the trade and assume the risk and follow your plan. Do not dial down to a 1 minute chart and tighten your stop,
because you will lose. The problem with the 1 minute chart is that it tempts you by offering lots of entries with smaller bars and therefore smaller
risk. However, you will not be able to take them all and you will instead cherry-pick, which will lead to the death of your account because you will
invariably pick too many bad cherries. When you enter on a 5 minute chart, your trade is based on your analysis of the 5 minute chart without any
idea of what the 1 minute chart looks like. You must therefore rely on your five-minute stops and targets, and just accept the reality that the 1 minute
chart will move against you and hit a one-minute stop frequently. If you watch the 1 minute chart, you will not be devoting your full attention to the 5
minute chart and a good trader will take your money from your account and put it into his account. If you want to compete, you must minimize all
distractions and all inputs other than what is on the chart in front of you, and trust that if you do you will make a lot of money. It will seem unreal but it
is very real. Never question it. Just keep things simple and follow your simple rules. It is extremely difficult to consistently do something simple, but in
my opinion, it is the best way to trade. Ultimately, as a trader understands price action better and better, trading becomes much less stressful and
actually pretty boring, but much more profitable.
Although I never gamble (because the combination of odds, risk, and reward are against me, and I never want to bet against math), there are
some similarities with gambling, especially in the minds of those who don't trade. Gambling is a game of chance, but I prefer to restrict the
definition to situations where the odds are slightly against you and you will lose over time. Why this restriction? Because without it, every investment
is a gamble since there is always an element of luck and a risk of total loss, even if you buy investment real estate, buy a home, start a business,

buy a blue-chip stock, or even buy Treasury bonds (the government might choose to devalue the dollar to reduce the real size of our debt, and in so
doing, the purchasing power of the dollars that you will get back from those bonds would be much less than when you originally bought the bonds).
Some traders use simple game theory and increase the size of a trade after one or more losing trades (this is called a martingale approach to
trading). Blackjack card counters are very similar to trading range traders. The card counters are trying to determine when the math has gone too
far in one direction. In particular, they want to know when the remaining cards in the deck are likely overweighed with face cards. When the count
indicates that this is likely, they place a trade (bet) based on the probability that a disproportionate number of face cards will be coming up,
increasing the odds of winning. Trading range traders are looking for times when they think the market has gone too far in one direction and then
they place a trade in the opposite direction (a fade).
I tried playing poker online a few times without using real money to find similarities to and differences from trading. I discovered early on that
there was a deal breaker for me: I was constantly anxious because of the inherent unfairness due to luck, and I never want luck to be a large
component of the odds for my success. This is a huge difference and makes me see gambling and trading as fundamentally different, despite
public perception. In trading, everyone is dealt the same cards so the game is always fair and, over time, you get rewarded or penalized entirely
due to your skill as a trader. Obviously, sometimes you can trade correctly and lose, and this can happen several times in a row due to the
probability curve of all possible outcomes. There is a real but microscopic chance that you can trade well and lose 10 or even 100 times or more in
a row; but I cannot remember the last time I saw as many as four good signals fail in a row, so this is a chance that I am willing to take. If you trade
well, over time you should make money because it is a zero-sum game (except for commissions, which should be small if you choose an
appropriate broker). If you are better than most of the other traders, you will win their money.
There are two types of gambling that are different from pure games of chance, and both are similar to trading. In both sports betting and poker,
gamblers are trying to take money from other gamblers rather than from the house, and therefore they can create odds in their favor if they are
significantly better than their competitors. However, the “commissions” that they pay can be far greater than those that a trader pays, especially with
sports betting, where the vig is usually 10 percent, and that is why incredibly successful sports gamblers like Billy Walters are so rare: they have to
be at least 10 percent better than the competition just to break even. Successful poker players are more common, as can be seen on all of the
poker shows on TV. However, even the best poker players do not make anything comparable to what the best traders make, because the practical
limits to their trading size are much smaller.
I personally find trading not to be stressful, because the luck factor is so tiny that it is not worth considering. However, there is one thing that
trading and playing poker share, and that is the value of patience. In poker, you stand to make far more money if you patiently wait to bet on only the
very best hands, and traders make more when they have the patience to wait for the very best setups. For me, this protracted downtime is much
easier in trading because I can see all of the other “cards” during the slow times, and it is intellectually stimulating to look for subtle price action
phenomena.
There is an important adage in gambling that is true in all endeavors, and that is that you should not bet until you have a good hand. In trading,
that is true as well. Wait for a good setup before placing a trade. If you trade without discipline and without a sound method, then you are relying on
luck and hope for your profits, and your trading is unquestionably a form of gambling.
One unfortunate comparison is from nontraders who assume that all day traders, and all market traders for that matter, are addicted gamblers
and therefore have a mental illness. I suspect that many are addicted, in the sense that they are doing it more for excitement than for profit. They are
willing to make low-probability bets and lose large sums of money because of the huge rush they feel when they occasionally win. However, most
successful traders are essentially investors, just like an investor who buys commercial real estate or a small business. The only real differences
from any other type of investing are that the time frame is shorter and the leverage is greater.
Unfortunately, it is common for beginners to occasionally gamble, and it invariably costs them money. Every successful trader trades on the basis
of rules. Whenever traders deviate from those rules for any reason, they are trading on hope rather than logic and are then gambling. Beginning
traders often find themselves gambling right after having a couple of losses. They are eager to be made whole again and are willing to take some
chances to make that happen. They will take trades that they normally would not take, because they are eager to get back the money they just lost.
Since they are now taking a trade that they believe is a low-probability trade and they are taking it because of anxiety and sadness over their
losses, they are now gambling and not trading. After they lose on their gamble, they feel even worse. Not only are they even further down on the day,
but they feel especially sad because they are faced with the reality that they did not have the discipline to stick to their system when they know that
discipline is one of the critical ingredients to success.
Interestingly, neurofinance researchers have found that brain scan images of traders about to make a trade are indistinguishable from those of
drug addicts about to take a hit. They found a snowball effect and an increased desire to continue, regardless of the outcome of their behavior.
Unfortunately, when faced with losses, traders assume more risk rather than less, often leading to the death of their accounts. Without knowing the
neuroscience, Warren Buffett clearly understood the problem, as seen in his statement, “Once you have ordinary intelligence, what you need is the
temperament to control the urges that get other people into trouble in investing.” The great traders control their emotions and constantly follow their
rules.
One final point about gambling: There is a natural tendency to assume that nothing can last forever and that every behavior regresses toward a
mean. If the market has three or four losing trades, surely the odds favor the next one being a winner. It's just like flipping a coin, isn't it?
Unfortunately, that is not how markets behave. When a market is trending, most attempts to reverse fail. When it is in a trading range, most
attempts to break out fail. This is the opposite of coin flips, where the odds are always 50–50. In trading, the odds are more like 70 percent or
better that what just happened will continue to happen again and again. Because of the coin flip logic, most traders at some point begin to consider
game theory.
Martingale techniques work well in theory but not in practice because of the conflict between math and emotion. That is the martingale paradox. If
you double (or even triple) your position size and reverse at each loss, you will theoretically make money. Although four losers in a row is
uncommon on the 5 minute Emini chart if you choose your trades carefully, they will happen, and so will a dozen or more, even though I can't
remember ever seeing that. In any case, if you are comfortable trading 10 contracts, but start with just one and plan to double up and reverse with
each loss, four consecutive losers would require 16 contracts on your next trade and eight consecutive losers would require 256 contracts! It is
unlikely that you would place a trade that is larger than your comfort zone following four or more losers. Anyone willing to trade one contract initially
would never be willing to trade 16 or 256 contracts, and anyone willing to trade 256 contracts would never be willing to initiate this strategy with just
one. This is the inherent, insurmountable, mathematical problem with this approach.
Since trading is fun and competitive, it is natural for people to compare it to games, and because wagering is involved, gambling is usually the
first thing that comes to mind. However, a far more apt analogy is to chess. In chess, you can see exactly what your opponent is doing, unlike in
card games where you don't know your opponent's cards. Also, in poker, the cards that you are dealt are yours purely by chance, but in chess, the

location of your pieces is entirely due to your decisions. In chess nothing is hidden and it is simply your skill compared to that of your opponent that
determines the outcome. Your ability to read what is in front of you and determine what will likely follow is a great asset both to a chess player and
to a trader.
Laypeople are also concerned about the possibility of crashes, and because of that risk, they again associate trading with gambling. Crashes
are very rare events on daily charts. These nontraders are afraid of their inability to function effectively during extremely emotional events. Although
the term 
crash
 is generally reserved for daily charts and applied to bear markets of about 20 percent or more happening in a short time frame, like
in 1927 and 1987, it is more useful to think of it as just another chart pattern because that removes the emotion and helps traders follow their rules.
If you remove the time and price axes from a chart and focus simply on the price action, there are market movements that occur frequently on
intraday charts that are indistinguishable from the patterns in a classic crash. If you can get past the emotion, you can make money off crashes,
because with all charts, they display tradable price action.
Figure I.4
 (from TradeStation) shows how markets can crash in any time frame. The one on the left is a daily chart of GE during the 1987 crash,
the middle is a 5 minute chart of COST after a very strong earnings report, and the one on the right is a 1 minute Emini chart. Although the term
crash
 is used almost exclusively to refer to a 20 percent or more sell-off over a short time on a daily chart and was widely used only twice in the past
hundred years, a price action trader looks for shape, and the same crash pattern is common on intraday charts. Since crashes are so common
intraday, there is no need to apply the term, because from a trading perspective they are just a bear swing with tradable price action.
Figure I.4
 Crashes Are Common
Incidentally, the concept that the same patterns appear on all time frames means that the principles of fractal mathematics might be useful in
designing trading systems. In other words, every pattern subdivides into standard price action patterns in smaller time frame charts, and trading
decisions based on price action analysis therefore work in all time frames.
HOW TO READ THESE BOOKS
I tried to group the material in the three books in a sequence that should be helpful to traders.
Book 1: 
Trading Price Action Trends: Technical Analysis of Price Charts Bar by Bar for the Serious Trader
The basics of price action and candles.
 The market is either trending or in a trading range. That is true of every time frame down to
even an individual bar, which can be a trend bar or a nontrend bar (doji).
Trend lines and trend channel lines.
 These are basic tools that can be used to highlight the existence of trends and trading ranges.
Trends.
 These are the most conspicuous and profitable components of every chart.
Book 2: 
Trading Price Action Trading Ranges: Technical Analysis of Price Charts Bar by Bar for the Serious Trader
Breakouts.
 These are transitions from trading ranges into trends.
Gaps.
 Breakouts often create several types of intraday gaps that can be helpful to traders, but these gaps are evident only if you use a
broad definition.
Magnets, support, and resistance.
 Once the market breaks out and begins its move, it is often drawn to certain prices, and these
magnets often set up reversals.
Pullbacks.
 These are transitions from trends to temporary trading ranges.
Trading ranges.
 These are areas of largely sideways price activity, but each leg is a small trend and an entire trading range is usually a
pullback in a trend on a higher time frame chart.
Order and trade management.
 Traders need as many tools as possible and need to understand scalping, swing trading, and scaling
into and out of trades, as well as how to enter and exit on stops and limit orders.
The mathematics of trading.
 There is a mathematical basis for all trading, and when you see why things are unfolding the way they do,
trading becomes much less stressful.
Book 3: 
Trading Price Action Reversals: Technical Analysis of Price Charts Bar by Bar for the Serious Trader
Trend reversals.
 These offer the best risk/reward ratios of any type of trade, but since most fail, traders need to be selective.
Day trading.
 Now that readers understand price action, they can use it to trade. The chapters on day trading, trading the first hour, and
detailed examples show how.
Daily, weekly, and monthly charts.
 These charts have very reliable price action setups.
Options.
 Price action can be used effectively in option trading.
Best trades.
 Some price action setups are especially good, and beginners should focus on these.
Guidelines.
 There are many important concepts that can help keep traders focused.
If you come across an unfamiliar term, you should be able to find its definition in the List of Terms at the beginning of the book.
Some books show charts that use the time zone of the location of the market, but now that trading is electronic and global, that is no longer

relevant. Since I trade in California, the charts are in Pacific standard time (PST). All of the charts were created with TradeStation. Since every
chart has dozens of noteworthy price action events that have not yet been covered, I describe many of them immediately after the primary
discussion under “Deeper Discussion of This Chart.” Even though you might find this incomprehensible when you first read it, you will understand it
on a second reading of the books. The more variations of standard patterns that you see, the better you will be able to spot them as they are
developing in real time. I also usually point out the major one or two trades on the chart. If you prefer, you can ignore that supplemental discussion
on your first read and then look at the charts again after completing the books when the deeper discussion would be understandable. Since many
of the setups are excellent examples of important concepts, even though not yet covered, many readers will appreciate having the discussion if they
go through the books again.
At the time of publication, I am posting a daily end-of-day analysis of the Emini and providing real-time chart reading during the trading day at
www.brookspriceaction.com.
All of the charts in the three books will be in a larger format on John Wiley & Sons’ site at 
www.wiley.com/go/tradingranges
. (See the “About the
Website” page at the back of the book.) You will be able to zoom in to see the details, download the charts, or print them. Having a printout of a
chart when the description is several pages long will make it easier to follow the commentary.
SIGNS OF STRENGTH: TRENDS, BREAKOUTS, REVERSAL BARS, AND
REVERSALS
Here are some characteristics that are commonly found in strong trends:
There is a big gap opening on the day.
There are trending highs and lows (swings).
Most of the bars are trend bars in the direction of the trend.
There is very little overlap of the bodies of consecutive bars. For example, in a bull spike, many bars have lows that are at or just one tick
below the closes of the prior bar. Some bars have lows that are at and not below the close of the prior bar, so traders trying to buy on a
limit order at the close of the prior bar do not get their orders filled and they have to buy higher.
There are bars with no tails or small tails in either direction, indicating urgency. For example, in a bull trend, if a bull trend bar opens on
its low tick and trends up, traders were eager to buy it as soon as the prior bar closed. If it closes on or near its high tick, traders
continued their strong buying in anticipation of new buyers entering right after the bar closes. They were willing to buy going into the
close because they were afraid that if they waited for the bar to close, they might have to buy a tick or two higher.
Occasionally, there are gaps between the bodies (for example, the open of a bar might be above the close of the prior bar in a bull
trend).
A breakout gap appears in the form of a strong trend bar at the start of the trend.
Measuring gaps occur where the breakout test does not overlap the breakout point. For example, the pullback from a bull breakout does
not drop below the high of the bar where the breakout occurred.
Micro measuring gaps appear where there is a strong trend bar and a gap between the bar before it and the bar after it. For example, if
the low of the bar after a strong bull trend bar in a bull trend is at or above the high of the bar before the trend bar, this is a gap and a
breakout test and a sign of strength.
No big climaxes appear.
Not many large bars appear (not even large trend bars). Often, the largest trend bars are countertrend, trapping traders into looking for
countertrend trades and missing with-trend trades. The countertrend setups almost always look better than the with-trend setups.
No significant trend channel line overshoots occur, and the minor ones result in only sideways corrections.
There are sideways corrections after trend line breaks.
Failed wedges and other failed reversals occur.
There is a sequence of 20 moving average gap bars (20 or more consecutive bars that do not touch the moving average, discussed in
book 2).
Few if any profitable countertrend trades are found.
There are small, infrequent, and mostly sideways pullbacks. For example, if the Emini's average range is 12 points, the pullbacks will all
likely be less than three or four points, and the market will often go for five or more bars without a pullback.
There is a sense of urgency. You find yourself waiting through countless bars for a good with-trend pullback and one never comes, yet
the market slowly continues to trend.
The pullbacks have strong setups. For example, the high 1 and high 2 pullbacks in a bull trend have strong bull reversal bars for signal
bars.
In the strongest trends, the pullbacks usually have weak signal bars, making many traders not take them, and forcing traders to chase the
market. For example, in a bear trend the signal bars for a low 2 short are often small bull bars in two or three bar bull spikes, and some
of the entry bars are outside down bars. It has trending “anything”: closes, highs, lows, or bodies.
Repeated two-legged pullbacks are setting up with trend entries.
No two consecutive trend bar closes occur on the opposite side of the moving average.
The trend goes very far and breaks several resistance levels, like the moving average, prior swing highs, and trend lines, and each by
many ticks.
Reversal attempts in the form of spikes against the trend have no follow-through, fail, and become flags in the direction of the trend.
The more of the following characteristics that a bull breakout has, the more likely the breakout will be strong:
The breakout bar has a large bull trend body and small tails or no tails. The larger the bar, the more likely the breakout will succeed.
If the volume of the large breakout bar is 10 to 20 times the average volume of recent bars, the chance of follow-through buying and a
possible measured move increases.
The spike goes very far, lasts several bars, and breaks several resistance levels, like the moving average, prior swing highs, and trend

lines, and each by many ticks.
As the first bar of the breakout bar is forming, it spends most of its time near its high and the pullbacks are small (less than a quarter of
the height of the growing bar).
There is a sense of urgency. You feel like you have to buy but you want a pullback, yet it never comes.
The next two or three bars also have bull bodies that are at least the average size of the recent bull and bear bodies. Even if the bodies
are relatively small and the tails are prominent, if the follow-through bar (the bar after the initial breakout bar) is large, the odds of the
trend continuing are greater.
The spike grows to five to 10 bars without pulling back for more than a bar or so.
One or more bars in the spike have a low that is at or just one tick below the close of the prior bar.
One or more bars in the spike have an open that is above the close of the prior bar.
One or more bars in the spike have a close on the bar's high or just one tick below its high.
The low of the bar after a bull trend bar is at or above the high of the bar before the bull trend bar, creating a micro gap, which is a sign of
strength. These gaps sometimes become measuring gaps. Although it is not significant to trading, according to Elliott Wave Theory they
probably represent the space between a smaller time frame Elliott Wave 1 high and a Wave 4 pullback, which can touch but not overlap.
The overall context makes a breakout likely, like the resumption of a trend after a pullback, or a higher low or lower low test of the bear
low after a strong break above the bear trend line.
The market has had several strong bull trend days recently.
There is growing buying pressure in the trading range, represented by many large bull trend bars, and the bull trend bars are clearly
more prominent than the bear trend bars in the range.
The first pullback occurs only after three or more bars of breaking out.
The first pullback lasts only one or two bars, and it follows a bar that is not a strong bear reversal bar.
The first pullback does not reach the breakout point and does not hit a breakeven stop (the entry price).
The breakout reverses many recent closes and highs. For example, when there is a bear channel and a large bull bar forms, this
breakout bar has a high and close that are above the highs and closes of five or even 20 or more bars. A large number of bars reversed
by the close of the bull bar is a stronger sign than a similar number of bars reversed by the high.
The more of the following characteristics that a bear breakout has, the more likely the breakout will be strong:
The breakout bar has a large bear trend body and small tails or no tails. The larger the bar, the more likely the breakout will succeed.
If the volume of the large breakout bar is 10 to 20 times the average volume of recent bars, the chance of follow-through selling and a
possible measured move down increases.
The spike goes very far, lasts several bars, and breaks several support levels like the moving average, prior swing lows, and trend lines,
and each by many ticks.
As the first bar of the breakout bar is forming, it spends most of its time near its low and the pullbacks are small (less than a quarter of
the height of the growing bar).
There is a sense of urgency. You feel like you have to sell but you want a pullback, yet it never comes.
The next two or three bars also have bear bodies that are at least the average size of the recent bull and bear bodies. Even if the bodies
are relatively small and the tails are prominent, if the follow-through bar (the bar after the initial breakout bar) is large, the odds of the
trend continuing are greater.
The spike grows to five to 10 bars without pulling back for more than a bar or so.
As a bear breakout goes below a prior significant swing low, the move below the low goes far enough for a scalper to make a profit if he
entered on a stop at one tick below that swing low.
One or more bars in the spike has a high that is at or just one tick above the close of the prior bar.
One or more bars in the spike has an open that is below the close of the prior bar.
One or more bars in the spike has a close on its low or just one tick above its low.
The high of the bar after a bear trend bar is at or below the low of the bar before the bear trend bar, creating a micro gap, which is a sign
of strength. These gaps sometimes become measuring gaps. Although it is not significant to trading, they probably represent the space
between a smaller time frame Elliott wave 1 low and a wave 4 pullback, which can touch but not overlap.
The overall context makes a breakout likely, like the resumption of a trend after a pullback, or a lower high or higher high test of the bull
high after a strong break below the bull trend line.
The market has had several strong bear trend days recently.
There was growing selling pressure in the trading range, represented by many large bear trend bars, and the bear trend bars were
clearly more prominent than the bull trend bars in the range.
The first pullback occurs only after three or more bars of breaking out.
The first pullback lasts only one or two bars and it follows a bar that is not a strong bull reversal bar.
The first pullback does not reach the breakout point and does not hit a breakeven stop (the entry price).
The breakout reverses many recent closes and lows. For example, when there is a bull channel and a large bear bar forms, this breakout
bar has a low and close that are below the lows and closes of five or even 20 or more bars. A large number of bars reversed by the
close of the bear bar is a stronger sign than a similar number of bars reversed by its low.
The best-known signal bar is the reversal bar and the minimum that a bull reversal bar should have is either a close above its open (a bull body)
or a close above its midpoint. The best bull reversal bars have more than one of the following:
An open near or below the close of the prior bar and a close above the open and above the prior bar's close.
A lower tail that is about one-third to one-half the height of the bar and a small or nonexistent upper tail.
Not much overlap with the prior bar or bars.
The bar after the signal bar is not a doji inside bar and instead is a strong entry bar (a bull trend bar with a relatively large body and small
tails).
A close that reverses (closes above) the closes and highs of more than one bar.

The minimum that a bear reversal bar should have is either a close below its open (a bear body) or a close below its midpoint. The best bear
reversal bars have:
An open near or above the close of the prior bar and a close well below the prior bar's close.
An upper tail that is about one-third to one-half the height of the bar and a small or nonexistent lower tail.
Not much overlap with the prior bar or bars.
The bar after the signal bar is not a doji inside bar and instead is a strong entry bar (a bear trend bar with a relatively large body and
small tails).
A close that reverses (closes below) the closes and extremes of more than one bar.
Here are a number of characteristics that are common in strong bull reversals:
There is a strong bull reversal bar with a large bull trend body and small tails or no tails.
The next two or three bars also have bull bodies that are at least the average size of the recent bull and bear bodies.
The spike grows to five to 10 bars without pulling back for more than a bar or so, and it reverses many bars, swing highs, and bear flags
of the prior bear trend.
One or more bars in the spike have a low that is at or just one tick below the close of the prior bar.
One or more bars in the spike have an open that is above the close of the prior bar.
One or more bars in the spike have a close on the high of the bar or just one tick below its high.
The overall context makes a reversal likely, like a higher low or lower low test of the bear low after a strong break above the bear trend
line.
The first pullback occurs only after three or more bars.
The first pullback lasts only one or two bars, and it follows a bar that is not a strong bear reversal bar.
The first pullback does not hit a breakeven stop (the entry price).
The spike goes very far and breaks several resistance levels like the moving average, prior swing highs, and trend lines, and each by
many ticks.
As the first bar of the reversal is forming, it spends most of its time near its high and the pullbacks are less than a quarter of the height of
the growing bar.
There is a sense of urgency. You feel like you have to buy but you want a pullback, yet it never comes.
The signal is the second attempt to reverse within the past few bars (a second signal).
The reversal began as a reversal from an overshoot of a trend channel line from the old trend.
It is reversing a significant swing high or low (e.g., it breaks below a strong prior swing low and reverses up).
The high 1 and high 2 pullbacks have strong bull reversal bars for signal bars.
It has trending “anything”: closes, highs, lows, or bodies.
The pullbacks are small and sideways.
There were prior breaks of earlier bear trend lines (this isn't the first sign of bullish strength).
The pullback to test the bear low lacks momentum, as evidenced by its having many overlapping bars with many being bull trend bars.
The pullback that tests the bear low fails at the moving average or the old bear trend line.
The breakout reverses many recent closes and highs. For example, when there is a bear channel and a large bull bar forms, this
breakout bar has a high and close that are above the highs and closes of five or even 20 or more bars. A large number of bars reversed
by the close of the bull bar is a stronger sign than a similar number of bars reversed by only its high.
Here are a number of characteristics that are common in strong bear reversals:
A strong bear reversal bar with a large bear trend body and small tails or no tails.
The next two or three bars also have bear bodies that are at least the average size of the recent bull and bear bodies.
The spike grows to five to 10 bars without pulling back for more than a bar or so, and it reverses many bars, swing lows, and bull flags of
the prior bull trend.
One or more bars in the spike has a high that is at or just one tick above the close of the prior bar.
One or more bars in the spike has an open that is below the close of the prior bar.
One or more bars in the spike has a close on its low or just one tick above its low.
The overall context makes a reversal likely, like a lower high or higher high test of the bull high after a strong break below the bull trend
line.
The first pullback occurs only after three or more bars.
The first pullback lasts only one or two bars and it follows a bar that is not a strong bull reversal bar.
The first pullback does not hit a breakeven stop (the entry price).
The spike goes very far and breaks several support levels like the moving average, prior swing lows, and trend lines, and each by many
ticks.
As the first bar of the reversal is forming, it spends most of its time near its low and the pullbacks are less than a quarter of the height of
the growing bar.
There is a sense of urgency. You feel like you have to sell, but you want a pullback, yet it never comes.
The signal is the second attempt to reverse within the past few bars (a second signal).
The reversal began as a reversal from an overshoot of a trend channel line from the old trend.
It is reversing at a significant swing high or low area (e.g., breaks above a strong prior swing high and reverses down).
The low 1 and low 2 pullbacks have strong bear reversal bars for signal bars.
It has trending “anything”: closes, highs, lows, or bodies.
The pullbacks are small and sideways.
There were prior breaks of earlier bull trend lines (this isn't the first sign of bearish strength).
The pullback to test the bull high lacks momentum, as evidenced by it having many overlapping bars with many being bear trend bars.

The pullback that tests the bull high fails at the moving average or the old bull trend line.
The breakout reverses many recent closes and lows. For example, when there is a bull channel and a large bear bar forms, this breakout
bar has a low and close that are below the lows and closes of five or even 20 or more bars. A large number of bars reversed by the
close of the bear bar is a stronger sign than a similar number of bars reversed by only its low.
BAR COUNTING BASICS: HIGH 1, HIGH 2, LOW 1, LOW 2
A reliable sign that a pullback in a bull trend or in a trading range has ended is when the current bar's high extends at least one tick above the high
of the prior bar. This leads to a useful concept of counting the number of times that this occurs, which is called bar counting. In a sideways or
downward move in a bull trend or a trading range, the first bar whose high is above the high of the prior bar is a high 1, and this ends the first leg of
the sideways or down move, although this leg may become a small leg in a larger pullback. If the market does not turn into a bull swing and instead
continues sideways or down, label the next occurrence of a bar with a high above the high of the prior bar as a high 2, ending the second leg.
A high 2 in a bull trend and a low 2 in a bear trend are often referred to as ABC corrections where the first leg is the A, the change in direction
that forms the high 1 or low 1 entry is the B, and the final leg of the pullback is the C. The breakout from the C is a high 2 entry bar in a bull ABC
correction and a low 2 entry bar in a bear ABC correction.
If the bull pullback ends after a third leg, the buy setup is a high 3 and is usually a type of wedge bull flag. When a bear rally ends in a third leg, it is
a low 3 sell setup and usually a wedge bear flag.
Some bull pullbacks can grow further and form a high 4. When a high 4 forms, it sometimes begins with a high 2 and this high 2 fails to go very
far. It is instead followed by another two legs down and a second high 2, and the entire move is simply a high 2 in a higher time frame. At other
times, the high 4 is a small spike and channel bear trend where the first or second push down is a bear spike and the next pushes down are in a
bear channel. If the high 4 fails to resume the trend and the market falls below its low, it is likely that the market is no longer forming a pullback in a
bull trend and instead is in a bear swing. Wait for more price action to unfold before placing a trade.
When a bear trend or a sideways market is correcting sideways or up, the first bar with a low below the low of the prior bar is a low 1, ending the
first leg of the correction, which can be as brief as that single bar. Subsequent occurrences are called the low 2, low 3, and low 4 entries. If the low 4
fails (a bar extends above the high of the low 4 signal bar after the low 4 short is triggered), the price action indicates that the bears have lost
control and either the market will become two-sided, with bulls and bears alternating control, or the bulls will gain control. In any case, the bears can
best demonstrate that they have regained control by breaking a bull trend line with strong momentum.

Part I
Breakouts: Transitioning into a New Trend
The market is always trying to break out, and then the market tries to make every breakout fail. This is the most fundamental aspect of all trading
and is at the heart of everything that we do. One of the most important skills that a trader can acquire is the ability to reliably determine when a
breakout will succeed or fail (creating a reversal). Remember, every trend bar is a breakout, and there are buyers and sellers at the top and bottom
of every bull and bear trend bar, no matter how strong the bar appears. Since every trend bar is a breakout and trend bars are common, traders
must understand that they have to be assessing every few bars all day long whether a breakout will continue or fail and then reverse. This is the
most fundamental concept in trading, and it is crucial to a trader's financial success to understand it. A breakout of anything is the same. Even a
climactic reversal like a V bottom is simply a breakout and then a failed breakout. There are traders placing trades based on the belief that the
breakout will succeed, and other traders placing trades in the opposite direction, betting it will fail. The better traders become at assessing whether
a breakout will succeed or fail, the better positioned they are to make a living as a trader. Will the breakout succeed? If yes, then look to trade in
that direction. If no (and become a failed breakout, which is a reversal), then look to trade in the opposite direction. All trading comes down to this
decision.
Breakout
 is a misleading term because 
out
 implies that it refers only to a market attempting to transition from a trading range into a trend, but it
can also be a buy or sell climax attempting to reverse into a trend in the opposite direction. The most important thing to understand about breakouts
is that most breakouts fail. There is a strong propensity for the market to continue what it has been doing, and therefore there is a strong resistance
to change. Just as most attempts to end a trend fail, most attempts to end a trading range and begin a trend also fail.
A breakout is simply a move beyond some prior point of significance such as a trend line or a prior high or low, including the high or low of the
previous bar. That point becomes the breakout point, and if the market later comes back to test that point, the pullback is the breakout test (a
breakout pullback that reaches the area of the breakout point). The space between the breakout point and the breakout test is the breakout gap. A
significant breakout, one that makes the always-in position clearly long or short and is likely to have follow-through for at least several bars, almost
always appears as a relatively large trend bar without significant tails. “Always in” is discussed in detail in the third book, and it means that if you
had to be in the market at all times, either long or short, the always-in position is whatever your current position is. The breakout is an attempt by the
market either to reverse the trend or to move from a trading range into a new trend. Whenever the market is in a trading range, it should be
considered to be in breakout mode. There is two-sided trading until one side gives up and the market becomes heavily one-sided, creating a spike
that becomes a breakout. All breakouts are spikes and can be made up of one or several consecutive trend bars. Breakouts of one type or another
are very common and occur as often as every few bars on every chart. As is discussed in Chapter 6 on gaps, all breakouts are functionally
equivalent to gaps, and since every trend bar is a breakout (and also a spike and a climax), it is also a gap. Many breakouts are easily overlooked,
and any single one may be breaking out of many things at one time. Sometimes the market will have setups in both directions and is therefore in
breakout mode; this is sometimes referred to as being in an inflection area. Traders will be ready to enter in the direction of the breakout in either
direction. Because breakouts are one of the most common features of every chart, it is imperative to understand them, their follow-through, and
their failure.
The high of the prior bar is usually a swing high on some lower time frame chart, so if the market moves above the high of the prior bar, it is
breaking above a lower time frame swing high. Also, when the market breaks above a prior swing high on the current chart, that high is simply the
high of the prior bar on some higher time frame chart. The same is true for the low of the prior bar. It is usually a swing low on a lower time frame
chart, and any swing low on the current chart is usually just the low of the prior bar on a higher time frame chart.
It is important to distinguish a breakout into a new trend from a breakout of a small trading range within a larger trading range. For example, if the
chart on your screen is in a trading range, and the market breaks above a small trading range in the bottom half of the screen, most traders will
assume that the market is still within the larger trading range, and not yet in a bull trend. The market might simply be forming a buy vacuum test of
the top of the larger trading range. Because of this, smart traders will not buy the closes of the strong bull trend bars near the top of the screen. In
fact, many will sell out of their longs to take profits and others will short them, expecting the breakout attempt to fail. Similarly, even though buying a
high 1 setup in strong bull spike can be a great trade, it is great only in a bull trend, not at the top of a trading range, where most breakout attempts
will fail. In general, if there is a strong bull breakout, but it is still below the high of the bars on the left half of the screen, make sure that the there is a
strong trend reversal underway before looking to buy near the top of the spike. If you believe that the market might still be within a trading range,
only consider buying pullbacks, instead of looking to buy near the top of the spike.
Big traders don't hesitate to enter a trend during its spike phase, because they expect significant follow-through, even if there is a pullback
immediately after their entry. If a pullback occurs, they increase the size of their position. For example, if there is a strong bull breakout lasting
several bars, more and more institutions become convinced that the market has become always-in long with each new higher tick, and as they
become convinced that the market will go higher, they start buying, and they press the trades by buying more as the market continues to rise. This
makes the spike grow very quickly. They have many ways to enter, like buying at the market, buying a one- or two-tick pullback, buying above the
prior bar on a stop, or buying on a breakout above a prior swing high. It does not matter how they get in, because their focus is to get at least a
small position on, and then look to buy more as the market moves higher or if it pulls back. Because they will add on as the market goes higher, the
spike can extend for many bars. A beginning trader sees the growing spike and wonders how anyone could be buying at the top of such a huge
move. What they don't understand is that the institutions are so confident that the market will soon be higher that they will buy all of the way up,
because they don't want to miss the move while waiting for a pullback to form. Beginners are also afraid that their stops would have to be below the
bottom of the spike, or at least below its midpoint, which is far away. The institutions know this, and simply adjust their position size down to a level
where their dollars at risk are the same as for any other trade.
At some resistance level, the early buyers take some profits, and then the market pulls back a little. When it does, the traders who want a larger
position quickly buy, thereby keeping the initial pullback small. Also, the bulls who missed the earlier entries will use the pullback to finally get long.
Some traders don't like to buy spikes, because they don't like to risk too much (the stop often needs to be below the bottom of the spike). They
prefer to feel like they are buying at a better price (a discount) and therefore will wait for a pullback to form before buying. If everyone is looking to
buy a pullback, why would one ever develop? It is because not everyone is looking to buy. Experienced traders who bought early on know that the
market can reverse at any time, and once they feel that the market has reached a resistance area where they think that profit taking might come in
or the market might reverse, they will take partial profits (they will begin to scale out of their longs), and sometimes will sell out of their entire

position. These are not the bulls who are looking to buy a few ticks lower on the first pullback. The experienced traders who are taking partial profits
are scaling out because they are afraid of a reversal, or of a deeper pullback where they could buy back many ticks lower. If they believed that the
pullback was only going to last for a few ticks, and then the bull was going to resume, they would never have exited. They always take their profits at
some resistance level, like a measured move target, a trend line, a trend channel line, a new high, or at the bottom of a trading range above. Most
of the trading is done by computers, so everything has a mathematical basis, which means that the profit taking targets are based on the prices on
the screen. With practice, traders can learn to spot areas where the computers might take profits, and they can take their profits at the same prices,
expecting a pullback to follow. Although trends have inertia and will go above most resistance areas, when a reversal finally does come, it will
always be at a resistance area, whether or not it is obvious to you.
Sometimes the spike will have a bar or a pattern that will allow aggressive bears to take a small scalp, if they think that the pullback is imminent
and that there is enough room for a profit. However, most traders who attempt this will lose, because most of the pullbacks do not go far enough for
a profit, or the trader's equation is weak (the probability of making a scalp times the size of the profit is smaller than the probability of losing times
the size of the protective stop). Also, traders who take the short are hoping so much for their small profit that they invariably end up missing the
much more profitable long that forms a few minutes later.
Traders enter in the direction of the breakout or in the opposite direction, depending on whether they expect it to succeed or to fail. Are they
believers or nonbelievers? There are many ways to enter in the direction of the breakout. Once traders feel a sense of urgency because they
believe that a significant move might be underway, they need to get into the market. Entering during a breakout is difficult for many traders because
the risk is larger and the move is fast. They will often freeze and not take the trade. They are worried about the size of the potential loss, which
means that they are caring too much to trade. They have to get their position size down to the “I don't care” size so that they can quickly get in the
trade. The best way for them to take a scary trade is to automatically trade only a third or a quarter of their normal trade size and use the wide stop
that is required. They might catch a big move, and making a lot on a small position is much better than making nothing on their usual position size. It
is important to avoid making the mistake of not caring to the point that you begin to trade weak setups and then lose money. First spot a good
setup and then enter the “I don't care” mode.
As soon as traders feel that the market has had a clear always-in move, they believe that a trend is underway and they need to get in as soon as
possible. For example, if there is a strong bull breakout, they can buy the close of the bar that made them believe that the trend has begun. They
might need to see the next bar also have a bull close. If they wait and they get that bull close, they could buy as soon as the bar closes, either with a
limit order at the level of the close of the bar or with a market order. They could wait for the first pause or pullback bar and place a limit order to buy
at its close, a tick above its low, at its low, or a tick or two below its low. They can place a limit order to buy any small pullback, like a one- to four-
tick pullback in the Emini, or a 5 to 10 cent pullback in a stock. If the breakout bar is not too large, the low of the next bar might test the high of the
bar before the breakout, creating a breakout test. They might place a limit order to buy at or just above the high of that bar, and risk to the low of the
breakout bar. If they try to buy at or below a pause bar and they do not get filled, they can place a buy stop order at one tick above the high of the
bar. If the spike is strong, they can look to buy the first high 1 setup, which is a breakout pullback. Earlier on, they can look at a 1, 2, or 3 minute
chart and buy at or below the low of a prior bar, above a high 1 or high 2 signal bar, or with a limit order at the moving average. Once they are in,
they should manage the position like any trend trade, and look for a swing to a measured move target to take profits and not exit with a small scalp.
The bulls will expect every attempt by the bears to fail, and therefore look to buy each one. They will buy around the close of every bear trend bar,
even if the bar is large and closes on its low. They will buy as the market falls below the low of the prior bar, any prior swing low, and any support
level, like a trend line. They also will buy every attempt by the market to go higher, like around the high of a bull trend bar or as the market moves
above the high of the prior bar or above a resistance level. This is the exact opposite of what traders do in strong bear markets, when they sell
above and below bars, and above and below both resistance and support. They sell above bars (and around every type of resistance), including
strong bull trend bars, because they see each move up as an attempt to reverse the trend, and most trend reversal attempts fail. They will sell below
bars (and around every type of support), because they see each move down as an attempt to resume the bear trend, and expect that most will
succeed.
Since most breakout attempts fail, many traders enter breakouts in the opposite direction. For example, if there is a bull trend and it forms a
large bear trend bar closing on its low, most traders will expect this reversal attempt to fail, and many will buy at the close of the bar. If the next bar
has a bull body, they will buy at the close of the bar and above its high. The first target is the high of the bear trend bar, and the next target is a
measured move up, equal to the height of the bear trend bar. Some traders will use an initial protective stop that is about the same number of ticks
as the bear trend bar is tall, and others will use their usual stop, like two points in the Emini. Information comes fast during a breakout, and traders
can usually formulate increasingly strong opinions with the close of each subsequent bar. If there is a second strong bear trend bar and then a third,
more traders will believe that the always-in position has reversed to down, and the bears will short more. The bulls who bought the bear spike will
soon decide that the market will work lower over the next several bars and will therefore exit their longs. It does not make sense for them to hold
long when they believe that the market will be lower in the near future. It makes more sense for them to sell out of their longs, take the loss, and then
buy again at a lower price once they think that the bull trend will resume. Because the bulls have become sellers, at least for the next several bars,
there is no one left to buy, and the market falls to the next level of support. If the market rallied after that first bear bar, the bears would quickly see
that they were wrong and would buy back their shorts. With no one left to short and everyone buying (the bulls initiating new longs and the bears
buying back their shorts), the market will probably rally, at least for several more bars.
Traders have to assess a breakout in relation to the entire chart and not just the current leg. For example, if the market is breaking out in a strong
bull spike, look across the chart to the left side of the screen. If there are no bars at the level of the current price, then buying closes and risking to
below the bottom of the spike is often a good strategy. Since the risk is big, trade small, but because a strong breakout has at least a 60 percent
chance of reaching a measured move that is approximately equal to the size of the spike, the trader's equation is good (the probability of success
times the potential reward is greater than the probability of failure times the risk). However, when you look to the left side of the screen, if you see
that the current breakout is still below the high from 20 or 30 bars earlier, the market might still be in a trading range. Trading ranges regularly have
sharp bull spikes that race to the top, only to reverse. The market then races to the bottom and that breakout attempt also fails. Because of this,
buying the closes of strong bull trend bars near the top of the trading range is risky, and it is usually better to look to buy pullbacks instead. Traders
should trade the market like a trading range until it is clearly in a trend.
A move above a prior high in a bull trend will generally lead to one of three outcomes: more buying, profit taking, or shorting. When the trend is
strong, strong bulls will press (add to) their longs by buying the breakout above the old high and there will be a measured move up of some kind. If
the market goes up far enough above the breakout to enable a trader to make at least a profitable scalp before there is a pullback, then assume
that there was mostly new buying at the high. If it goes sideways and the breakout shows signs of weakness (discussed further on), assume that
there was profit taking and that the bulls are looking to buy again a little lower. If the market reverses down hard, assume that the strong bears

dominated at the new high and that the market will likely trade down for at least a couple of legs and at least 10 bars.
In the absence of some rare, dramatic news event, traders don't suddenly switch from extremely bullish to extremely bearish. There is a gradual
transition. A trader becomes less bullish, then neutral, and then bearish. Once enough traders make this transition, the market reverses into a
deeper correction or into a bear trend. Every trading firm has its own measure of excess, and at some point enough firms decide that the trend has
gone too far. They believe that there is little risk of missing a great move up if they stop buying above the old high, and they will buy only on
pullbacks. If the market hesitates above the old high, the market is becoming two-sided, and the strong bulls are using the new high to take profits.
Profit taking means that traders are still bullish and are looking to buy a pullback. Most new highs are followed by profit taking. Every new high is
a potential top, but most reversal attempts fail and become the beginning of bull flags, only to be followed by another new high. If a rally to test the
high has several small pullbacks within the leg up, with lots of overlapping bars, several bear bodies, and big tails on the tops of the bars, and most
of the bull trend bars are weak, then the market is becoming increasingly two-sided. The bulls are taking profits at the tops of the bars and buying
only at the bottoms of the bars, and the bears are beginning to short at the tops of the bars. Similarly, the bulls are taking profits as the market
approaches the top of the bull trend and the bears are shorting more. If the market goes above the bull high, it is likely that the profit taking and
shorting will be even stronger.
Most traders do not like to reverse, so if they are anticipating a reversal signal, they prefer to exit their longs and then wait for that signal. The loss
of these bulls on the final leg up in the trend contributes to the weakness of the rally to the final high. If there is a strong reversal down after the
market breaks above the prior high, the strong bears are taking control of the market, at least for the near term. Once that happens, then the bulls
who were hoping to buy a small pullback believe instead that the market will fall further. They therefore wait to buy until there is a much larger
pullback, and their absence of buying allows the bears to drive the market down into a deeper correction lasting 10 or more bars and often having
two or more legs. Whenever there is a new trend, traders reverse their mind-set. When a bull trend reverses to a bear trend, they stop buying above
bars on stops and buying below bars on limit orders, and begin selling above bars on limit orders and selling below bars on stops. When a bear
trend reverses to a bull trend, they stop selling below bars on stops and selling above bars on limit orders, and begin buying above bars on stops
and buying below bars on limit orders.
There is one situation where the breakout in a bull trend is routinely met by aggressive shorts who will usually take over the market. A pullback is
a minor trend in the opposite direction, and traders expect it to end soon and for the larger trend to resume. When there is a pullback in a strong
bear trend, the market will often have two legs up in the minor bull trend. As the market goes above the high of the first leg up, it is breaking out
above a prior swing high in a minor bull trend. However, since most traders will see the move up as a pullback that will end very soon, the dominant
traders on the breakout will usually be aggressive sellers, instead of aggressive new buyers, and the minor bull trend will usually reverse back down
into the direction of the major bear trend after breaking out above the first or second swing high in the pullback.
The same is true of new lows in a bear trend. When the bear trend is strong, strong bears will press their shorts by adding to their positions on
the breakout to a new low and the market will continue to fall until it reaches some measured move target. As the trend weakens, the price action at
a new low will be less clear, which means that the strong bears are using the new low as an area to take profits on their shorts rather than as an
area to add to their shorts. As the bear trend further loses strength, the strong bulls will eventually see a new low as a great price to initiate longs
and they will be able to create a reversal pattern and then a significant rally.
As a trend matures, it usually transitions into a trading range, but the first trading ranges that form are usually followed by a continuation of the
trend. How do the strong bulls and bears act as a trend matures? In a bull trend, when the trend is strong, the pullbacks are small because the
strong bulls want to buy more on a pullback. Since they suspect that there may not be a pullback until the market is much higher, they begin to buy in
pieces, but relentlessly. They look for any reason to buy, and with so many big traders in the market, there will be some buying for every imaginable
reason. They place limit orders to buy a few ticks down and other limit orders to buy a few ticks above the low of the prior bar, at the low of the prior
bar, and below the low of the prior bar. They place stop orders to buy above the high of the prior bar and on a breakout above any prior swing high.
They also buy on the close of both any bull or bear trend bar. They see the bear trend bar as a brief opportunity to buy at a better price and the bull
trend bar as a sign that the market is about to move up quickly.
The strong bears are smart and see what is going on. Since they believe, just like the strong bulls, that the market is going to be higher before
long, it does not make sense for them to be shorting. They just step aside and wait until they can sell higher. How much higher? Each institution has
its own measure of excess, but once the market gets to a price level where enough bear firms believe that it might not go any higher, they will begin
to short. If enough of them short around the same price level, more and larger bear trend bars form and bars start to get tails on the tops. These are
signs of selling pressure, and they tell all traders that the bulls are becoming weaker and the bears are becoming stronger. The strong bulls
eventually stop buying above the last swing high and instead begin to take profits as the market goes to a new high. They are still bullish but are
becoming selective and will buy only on pullbacks. As the two-sided trading increases and the sell-offs have more bear trend bars and last for more
bars, the strong bulls will want to buy only at the bottom of the developing trading range and will look to take profits at the top. The strong bears
begin to short at new highs and are now willing to scale in higher. They might take partial profits near the bottom of the developing trading range if
they think that the market might reverse back up and break out to a new high, but they will keep looking to short new highs. At some point, the
market becomes a 50–50 market and neither the bulls nor the bears are in control; eventually the bears become dominant, a bear trend begins,
and the opposite process unfolds.
A protracted trend will often have an unusually strong breakout, but it can be an exhaustive climax. For example, in a protracted bull trend, all
strong bulls and bears love to see a large bull trend bar or two, especially if it is exceptionally large, because they expect it to be a brief, unusually
great opportunity. Once the market is close to where the strong bulls and bears want to sell, like near a measured move target or a trend channel
line, especially if the move is the second or third consecutive buy climax, they step aside. The absence of selling by the strongest traders results in
a vacuum above the market. The programs that detect the momentum early on in a bar see this and quickly buy repeatedly until the momentum
slows. Since few strong traders are selling, the result is one or two relatively large bull trend bars. This bull spike is just the sign that the strong
traders have been waiting for, and once it is there, they appear as if out of nowhere and begin their selling. The bulls take profits on their longs and
the bears initiate new shorts. Both sell aggressively at the close of the bar, above its high, at the close of the next bar (especially if it is a weaker
bar), and at the close of the following bar, especially if the bars are starting to have bear bodies. They also short below the low of the prior bar.
When they see a strong bear trend bar, they short at its close and below its low. The momentum programs also take profits. Both the bulls and the
bears expect a larger correction, and the bulls will not consider buying again until at least a 10-bar, two-legged correction, and even then only if the
sell-off looks weak. The bears expect the same sell-off and will not be eager to take profits too early.
Weak traders see that large bull trend bar in the opposite way. The weak bulls, who had been sitting on the sidelines hoping for an easy pullback
to buy, see the market running away from them and want to make sure they catch this next leg up, especially since the bar is so strong and the day
is almost over. The weak bears, who shorted early and maybe scaled in, were terrified by the rapidity with which the bar broke to a new high. They

are afraid of relentless follow-through buying, so they buy back their shorts. These weak traders are trading on emotion and are competing against
computers, which do not have emotion as one of the variables in their algorithms. Since the computers control the market, the emotions of the weak
traders doom them to big losses on big bull trend bars at the end of an overdone bull trend.
Once a strong bull trend begins to have pullbacks that are relatively large, the pullbacks, which are always small trading ranges, behave more like
trading ranges than like bull flags. The direction of the breakout becomes less certain, and traders begin to think that a downside breakout is about
as likely as an upside breakout. A new high is now a breakout attempt above a trading range, and the odds are that it will fail. Likewise, once a
strong bear trend begins to have relatively large pullbacks, those pullbacks behave more like trading ranges than like bear flags, and therefore a
new low is an attempt to break below a trading range and the odds are that it will fail.
Every trading range is within either a bull or a bear trend. Once the two-sided trading is strong enough to create the trading range, the trend is no
longer strong, at least while the trading range is in effect. There will always be a breakout from the range eventually, and if it is to the upside and it is
very strong, the market is in a strong bull trend. If it is to the downside and strong, the market is in a strong bear trend.
Once the bears are strong enough to push a pullback well below the bull trend line and the moving average, they are confident enough that the
market will likely not go much higher and they will aggressively short above the old high. At this point, the bulls will have decided that they should buy
only a deep pullback. A new mind-set is now dominant at the new high. It is no longer a place to buy, because it no longer represents much strength.
Yes, there is profit taking by the bulls, but most big traders now look at the new high as a great opportunity to initiate shorts. The market has
reached the tipping point, and most traders have stopped looking to buy small pullbacks and instead are looking to sell rallies. The bears are
dominant and the strong selling will likely lead to a large correction or even a trend reversal. After the next strong push down, the bears will look for a
lower high to sell again or to add to their short positions, and the bulls who bought the pullback will become concerned that the trend might have
reversed or at least that there will be a much larger pullback. Instead of hoping for a new bull high to take profits on their longs, they will now take
profits at a lower high and not look to buy again until after a larger correction. Bulls know that most reversal attempts fail, and many who rode the
trend up will not exit their longs until after the bears have demonstrated the ability to push the market down hard. Once these bulls see this
impressive selling pressure, they will then look for a rally to finally exit their longs. Their supply will limit the rally, and their selling, added to the
shorting by aggressive bears and the profit taking by bulls who saw the sell-off as a buying opportunity, will create a second leg down.
If the market enters a bear trend, the process will reverse. When the bear trend is strong, traders will short below prior lows. As the trend
weakens, the bears will take profits at new lows and the market will likely enter a trading range. After a strong rally above the bull trend line and the
moving average, the bears will take profits at a new low and strong bulls will aggressively buy and try to take control of the market. The result will be
a larger bear rally or possibly a reversal into a bull trend.
A similar situation occurs when there is a pullback that is large enough to make traders wonder if the trend has reversed. For example, if there is
a deep, sharp pullback in a bull trend, traders will begin to wonder if the market has reversed. They are looking at moves below prior swing lows,
but this is in the context of a pullback in a bull trend instead of as part of a bear trend. They will watch what happens as the market falls (breaks out)
below a prior swing low. Will the market fall far enough for bears, who entered on a sell stop below that swing low, to make a profit? Did the new low
find more sellers than buyers? If it did, that is a sign that the bears are strong and that the pullback will probably go further. The trend might even
have reversed.
Another possibility on the breakout to a new low is that the market enters a trading range, which is evidence that the shorts took profits and that
there was unimpressive buying by the bulls. The final alternative is that the market reverses up after the breakout to a new low. This means that
there were strong bulls below that swing low just waiting for the market to test there. This is a sign that the sell-off is more likely just a big pullback in
an ongoing bull trend. The shorts from higher up took profits on the breakout to the new low because they believed that the trend was still up. The
strong bulls bought aggressively because they believed that the market would not fall further and that it would rally to test the bull high.
Whenever there is any breakout below a swing low, traders will watch carefully for evidence that the bulls have returned or that the bears have
taken control. They need to decide what influence is greater at the new low, and will use the market's behavior to make that decision. If there is a
strong breakout, then new selling is dominant. If the market's movement is uncertain, then profit taking by the shorts and weak buying by the bulls
are taking place, and the market will likely enter a trading range. If there is a strong reversal up, then aggressive buying by the longs is the most
important factor.
Sometimes, when the market is in a weak trend, there is a large breakout bar in the direction of the trend. That breakout bar often acts as a
spike, and it is usually followed by several more trend bars, but they usually overlap and have tails. These bars create a tight bull channel. Like with
any spike and channel trend, the market often tests back to the start of the channel, which in this case is the breakout gap area. For example, if
there is a relatively weak bull swing and then the market breaks to the upside with a large bull trend bar, and this is followed by three or four more
smaller bull trend bars, these bars usually act as a channel. Once the market trades down to the area of the first of those channel bars, it often goes
slightly below its low, and that puts the market in the gap area that was created by the breakout bar. The gap is both a measuring gap and a
breakout gap, and the test of the gap is usually followed by a resumption of the trend rather than the start of a reversal down.
An inflection is a mathematical term that means that there has been a change of direction. For example, if there is a horizontal wave that goes up
and down repeatedly, when the wave is going down, at some point the slope changes from steeply down to less steeply down as it begins to form a
bottom. For example, the middle of the letter 
S
 is the inflection point in the curve, because it is the point where the slope begins to change direction.
In trading, an inflection is just an area where you expect a trend reversal, which may or may not develop. Since the move can go in either direction,
the market is in breakout mode and traders will be ready to enter in the direction of the breakout. In either case, the market will often make a
measured move, which is a move that covers about the same number of points as the pattern that led up to it. For example, a double top often
leads to a breakout to the upside or downside. After the breakout, the market often runs beyond the breakout point to a measured move target that
is about the same number of points away as the distance from the bottom to the top of the double top. There is often a gap between the breakout
point and the first pullback, and the middle of the gap often leads to a measured move (measuring gaps are discussed in Chapter 6 on gaps).
Breakout mode situations can behave in an opposite way in a trading range. For example, if there is a breakout mode setup in the middle of a
trading range, there may be more buyers than sellers below the bar and more sellers than buyers above. If the situation is too uncertain to make
traders believe that they have a good trader's equation, it is usually better to wait for clarity. At the extremes of a trading range, three things can
happen: there can be (1) a reversal, (2) a breakout that fails and is followed by a reversal, or (3) a successful breakout. Only one of the three leads
to a trend. This is consistent with the concept that most breakout attempts fail.
When there is a breakout against a trend, the countertrend traders are trying to create a channel (a spike and channel trend) or some other form
of a new trend after their spike. However, the trend traders are usually able to reverse the breakout within a few bars, turning it into a flag. For
example, if there is a bear channel that has a large bull trend bar or two breaking above the channel, the bulls are hoping to form a bull channel after
a pullback. However, they will usually fail and the bull spike will end up as simply part of a bear flag. The bears saw the spike as a great opportunity

to add to their shorts at a brief, high price, which represented correctly value to them.
Figure PI.1
 New Highs Find New Buyers, Profit Takers, and Shorts
When a bull trend breaks above a prior swing high, there will be new buyers, profit takers, and shorts (see 
Figure PI.1
). If the trend that preceded
the breakout is starting out and is very strong, there will be some profit taking, like after bars 5, 12, and 17, but the new buyers will overwhelm the
bears, and the trend will quickly resume. Later in the trend, there will be much less new buying and much more profit taking, like after bar 19. There
are many measures of excess, and once enough trading firms believe that the bull trend is overdone, they will take profits on their longs and buy
again only after about a 10-bar, two-legged correction. I use the phrase “10-bar, two-legged” often, and my intention is to say that the correction will
last longer and be more complex than a small pullback. That usually requires at least 10 bars and two legs, and sometimes can result in a trend
reversal.
Whenever there is a breakout, it might fail and lead to a trend reversal. The chance of a successful reversal is greater if the context is right and
the reversal bar is strong. If the breakout bar and spike leading to the breakout is stronger than the reversal bar, and the chance of a climactic
reversal is not great, the odds are that the reversal attempt will fail within a few bars and form a breakout pullback setup that will lead to a
resumption of the trend. For example, bar 12 was a small bear reversal bar, but it followed a much stronger three-bar bull spike and the market was
trending up in a tight channel all day following a large gap up. This made the odds of a successful reversal small, so bulls bought at and below the
low of bar 12. The next bar was a doji and therefore a weak entry bar for the bears, so there were almost certainly going to be more buyers than
sellers above its high. It became a breakout pullback buy signal bar (here, a high 1 buy setup). The next bar was a bull bar, and more buyers bought
above its high. In general, the odds of a successful buy signal are greater when traders wait to enter above a bull bar. Bar 14 was the breakout bar,
but it closed on its low and formed a bear doji reversal bar, which is a weak sell signal in the face of such a tight bull channel. The bulls were so
aggressive that they did not want the short to trigger. They placed limit orders at and above the low of the bear bar, and there were enough buy
orders to overwhelm the bears. The short never triggered and the market continued to rally. Bar 14 was simply another pullback from the breakout
(and it was also the breakout), and traders bought above the high of bar 15, which was another breakout pullback buy signal.
Another example of comparing the strength of the breakout with that of the reversal occurred on the bar 5 breakout. The bear bar after bar 5 was
the signal bar for the failed breakout of the bar 4 one bar bull flag and the breakout above bar 3. The bear signal was small compared to the 3 bar
bull spike up from bar 4, and was therefore unlikely to reverse the trend. The next bar was a breakout pullback buy setup, but had a bear body,
which is not a strong buy signal bar. The bar after had a bull body and therefore buying above its high had a higher probability of success.
Bar 10 was a breakout of an ii bull flag, but the breakout bar was a bear reversal bar, which is a weak breakout bar. This increased the chances
that the breakout would fail. The breakout bar was also the signal bar for the failed breakout.
The correction sometimes breaks the bull trend line and creates enough selling pressure for the bears to become aggressive at the next new
high, as they were at bar 25. There was still some profit taking by the bulls, but very little new buying. The bears took control going into the close.
Both the strong bulls and bears looked forward to the final, strong breakout up to bar 19. They liked seeing a large bull spike after a protracted
bull trend, because the expected correction provided both of them with a temporary trading opportunity. It was the third consecutive bull climax
without a correction since the bar 11 low (bars 11 to 12 and 15 to 17 were the first two), and consecutive buy climaxes often lead to a two-legged
correction lasting about 10 bars and falling below the moving average. Both the strong bulls and bears sold at the close of the two-bar bull spike
before bar 19, above its high, at the close of bar 19 (especially since it had a bear body), and below its low. The bulls didn't look to buy again and
the bears did not take profits on their shorts until after the two-legged correction was complete, which was in the bar 21 to bar 24 area. The sell-off
was strong enough for both to think that the market might have a trend reversal into a bear trend after a lower high or higher high test of the bar 19
bull high, and this resulted in the sell-off from bar 25 into the close.
Since most reversal attempts fail, traders often fade them. Bar 22 was a strong bear trend bar in a bull trend, and many traders bought its close.
Their first target was a move to the high of the bar, which occurred two bars later, and then a measured move up, which was reached by the end of
the day.
The bear bar after bar 5 was a breakout mode setup. Since it was a bear bar after a bull breakout above the bar 3 swing high, it was a failed
breakout short setup. It was also a one-bar pullback in a bull breakout, so it was a high 1 breakout pullback buy setup. In this case, since the three-
bar bull spike was so strong, it was more likely that the bulls would outnumber the bears both below and above the bar. Some bought at the low of
the bear inside bar with limit orders, whereas others bought above it and above bar 6 with stop orders.
Figure PI.2
 Low-Volume Bull Breakout in a Bear Trend

As shown in 
Figure PI.2
, the Emini was in a bear trend on the 60 minute chart on the left and many traders looked to buy a measured move down,
based on the height of the initial spike down from bar 1 to bar 2. The bears bought back their shorts to take profits, and aggressive bulls bought to
initiate longs, expecting a possible trend reversal and test of the start of the bear channel (the lower swing high after bar 2). The chance of at least
two legs up was increased by the reversal down from the bar 3 moving average gap bar and break above the bear trend line (reversals are
covered in the third book).
The 5 minute chart on the right reversed up after falling one tick below the 60 minute measured move target (bar 4 is the same time on both
charts). Bar 5 was a large bull reversal bar with a small tail, and bulls were hopeful for a strong reversal up. However, the bar had only 23,000
contracts, or about three times as many as an average 5 minute bar. When the average 5 minute bar has 5,000 to 10,000 contracts, most bull
reversals with protracted follow-through have about 5 to 10 times that volume, or at least 40,000 to 50,000 contracts. The most reliable bars have
over 100,000 contracts. Traders do not have to worry about volume because the chart will tell them what they need to know, but seeing huge volume
on a large trend bar that is breaking out increases the chances that there will be follow-through and usually at least some kind of measured move.
When there is a strong bear trend and the reversal up goes for only two bars and then pulls back, and the second bar up has a large tail, the
reversal is not strong. More experienced traders can look at the volume and see it as another sign that the reversal is not strong, or they can look at
the 60 minute chart and see the strong bear trend. However, all day traders need to see is the 5 minute chart to place their trades. They would have
bought bar 5 as it was forming, as it closed, and above its high. They would have also bought the bar 7 ioi (inside-outside-inside) pattern, high 4
bull flag at the moving average. Since they were buying a strong bull move, they should have assumed that they had at least a 60 percent chance of
making a reward that was at least as large as their risk. They could have chosen a two-point stop, since that worked well lately, and then used a
two-point profit target. Another trader who bought at the bar 5 close might have been willing to risk to below the bar 5 low (about four points), and
his profit taking target might have been as many points as he had to risk. The stop for the trader who bought above bar 7 would have been below
the low of bar 7 or below the bar before it. Her risk was about two points, and she could have held for either two points or for a move above the bar
6 high (here, it was also about two points).

Chapter 1
Example of How to Trade a Breakout
Many beginners find breakouts difficult to trade because the market moves fast, requiring quick decisions, and often has large bars, which means
that there is more risk and traders then have to reduce their position size. However, if a trader learns to identify one that is likely to be successful,
the trader's equation can be very strong.
Figure 1.1
 Breakouts Are Reliable Setups
When a chart discussion runs for multiple pages, remember that you can go to the Wiley website (
www.wiley.com/go/tradingranges
) and either view
the chart or print it out, allowing you to read the description in the book without having to repeatedly flip pages back to see the chart.
Successful breakouts, like the bull breakouts in 
Figure 1.1
, have excellent math, but can be emotionally very difficult to trade. They happen quickly
and traders instinctively know that the risk is to the bottom of the spike (they put their protective stop at one tick below the low of the lowest bar in
the bull spike, like below bar 14), which is often more than their usual risk tolerance. They want a pullback but know it will likely not come until the
market is higher, and they are afraid to buy at the market because they are buying at the top of a spike. If the market reverses on the next tick, they
will have bought at the top of a spike and their protective stop is very far away. However, what they often fail to appreciate is that the math is on their
side. Once there is a strong spike in a breakout like this, the probability of at least a measured move up based on the height of the spike is at least
60 percent and may even sometimes be 80 percent. This means that they have at least a 60 percent chance of making at least as much as their
initial risk, and if the spike continues to grow after they enter, their risk stays the same but the measured move target gets higher and higher. For
example, if traders bought at the close of bar 15 on the 5 minute chart of the 10-Year U.S. Treasury Note Futures in 
Figure 1.1
, they would risk to
one tick (one 64th of a point) below the bottom of the two-bar spike, which is one tick below the bar 14 low, or seven ticks below the entry price. At
this point, since the traders believed that the market was always-in long, they thought that there was at least a 60 percent chance of it being higher
within a few bars. They should also have assumed that there would be at least a measured move up. Since the spike was six ticks tall, the market
had at least a 60 percent chance of trading up at least six ticks before falling to their protective stops.
At the close of bar 19, the spike had grown to 17 ticks tall and since it was still a breakout spike, there was still at least a 60 percent chance of at
least a measured move up. If traders were flat at this point, they could have bought small positions at the market and risked to one tick below the
bar 14 bottom of the spike, or 18 ticks, to make 16 ticks (if the market went 17 ticks higher, they could get out with 16 ticks of profit). The traders
who bought the bar 15 close were still risking seven ticks to below the bar 14 low, but now had a 60 percent chance of the market trading 17 ticks
above the bar 19 high, which would be about a 28-tick profit (14 32nds). The spike ended at bar 19, once the next bar was a bear inside bar
instead of another strong bull trend bar. This was the first in a series of pullbacks in the channel phase of the bull trend. Bar 24 went above the
measured move target, and the market traded even higher about an hour later.
In practice, most traders would have tightened their stops as the spike grew, so they would have risked less than what was just discussed. Many
traders who bought the bar 15 close might have raised their stops to below bar 17 once it closed because they would not have wanted the market
to fall below such a strong bull trend bar. If it did, they would have believed that their premise was wrong and they would not want to risk a larger
loss. When bar 19 closed and traders saw that it was a strong bull trend bar, many might have put their protective stops in the micro measuring gap
created by the bar 17 breakout. The low of bar 18 was above the high of bar 16, and this gap is a sign of strength. Traders would want the market
to continue up and not trade below bar 18 and into the gap, so some traders would have trailed their stop to below the bar 18 low. Many
experienced traders use spikes to press their trades. They add to their longs as the spike continues up, because they know that the spike has an
exceptional trader's equation and that the great opportunity will be brief. A trader needs to be aggressive when the market is offering trades with
strong trader's equations. He also needs to trade little or not at all when it does not, like in a tight trading range.
The bull spike up from bar 5 flipped the market to always-in long for most traders. When the market traded above the bar 11 wedge bear flag
high, it was likely to have approximately a measured move up. Bar 15 was a second consecutive strong bull trend bar and confirmed the breakout
in the minds of many traders. Both bars 14 and 15 were strong bull trend bars with good-sized bodies and without significant tails. There was good
buying pressure all of the way up from the bar 5 low, as seen by many strong bull trend bars, little overlap, and only a few bear trend bars and the
absence of consecutive strong bear trend bars. The market might have been in the early stages of a bull trend, and smart traders were looking for a
bull breakout. They were eager to get long once bars 14 and 15 broke out, and traders kept buying relentlessly in pieces all the way up to the bar 19
high.
The most important thing that traders must force themselves to do, and it is usually difficult, is as soon as they believe that there is a reliable

breakout spike, they must take at least a small position. When they feel themselves hoping for a pullback but fearing that it won't come for many
more bars, they should assume that the breakout is strong. They must decide where a worst-case protective stop would be, which is usually
relatively far away, and use that as their stop. Because the stop will be large, their initial position should be small if they are entering late. Once the
market moves in their direction and they can tighten their stop, they can look to add to their position, but should never exceed their normal risk level.
When everyone wants a pullback, it usually will not come for a long time. This is because everyone believes that the market will soon be higher but
they do not necessarily believe that it will be lower anytime soon. Smart traders know this and therefore they start buying in pieces. Since they have
to risk to the bottom of the spike, they buy small. If their risk is three times normal, they will buy only one-third of their usual size to keep their
absolute risk within their normal range. When the strong bulls keep buying in small pieces, this buying pressure works against the formation of a
pullback. The strong bears see the trend and they, too, believe that the market will soon be higher. If they think it will be higher soon, they will stop
looking to short. It does not make sense for them to short if they think that they can short at a better price after a few more bars. So the strong bears
are not shorting and the strong bulls are buying in small pieces, in case there is no pullback for a long time.
What is the result? The market keeps working higher. Since you need to be doing what the smart traders are doing, you need to buy at least a
small amount at the market or on a one- or two-tick pullback and risk to the bottom of the spike. Even if the pullback begins on the next tick, the
odds are that it won't fall too far before smart bulls see it as value and they buy aggressively. Remember, everyone is waiting to buy a pullback, so
when it finally comes it will only be small and not last long. All of those traders who have been waiting to buy will see this as the opportunity that they
wanted. The result is that your position will once again be profitable very soon. Once the market goes high enough, you can look to take partial
profits or you can look to buy more on a pullback, which will probably be at a price above your original entry. The important point is that as soon as
you decide that buying a pullback is a great idea, you should do exactly what the strong bulls are doing and buy at least a small position at the
market.
Some traders like to buy breakouts as the market moves above a prior swing high, entering on a buy stop at one tick above the old high. In
general, the reward is greater, the risk is smaller, and the probability of success is higher when entering on pullbacks. If traders buy these
breakouts, they usually will then have to hold through a pullback before they can make much profit. It is usually better to buy the pullback than the
breakout. For example, rather than buying above bar 6 as the market moved up to bar 9, the trader's equation was probably stronger for a buy
above the bar 10 pullback instead.
The same is true for the bar 11 move above bar 9. With every breakout, traders have to decide if it will succeed or fail. If they believe that it will
succeed, they will look to buy the close of the breakout or follow-through bars, at and below the low of the prior bar, and above the high of the prior
bar. If they believe that it will fail, they will not buy and if they are long, they will exit their positions. If they believe that the failure will trade down far
enough for a scalp, they might go short for a scalp. If they think that the failure will lead to a trend reversal, they might look to swing a short down. In
this particular case, as the market moved strongly above the bar 9 and bar 11 double top, it was reasonable to buy the breakout, but traders who
bought the close of bar 15 entered around the same price and had a more sound reason to take the trade (buying the close of a strong bull trend
bar in a strong bull spike).
If any bull trend or breakout that does not look quite strong enough to buy near the top of the spike, like on the close of the most recent bar, the
trader's equation is stronger if traders instead wait to buy pullbacks. Bar 22 was the second bar of a breakout from an ii pattern and therefore the
beginning of a possible final flag reversal setup. This was likely a minor buy climax (discussed in book 3 in the chapter on climax reversals). At this
point, the trader's equation was stronger for buying a pullback than for buying the close of bar 22. The same was true for bar 24. As a trend
becomes more two-sided, it is better to look to buy pullbacks. Once the two-side trading becomes strong enough and the prior pullbacks have
been deeper and lasted for more than five bars or so, traders can begin to short for scalps, like at the two bar reversal at bar 24 (shorting below the
low of then bear bar that followed). After the market has transitioned into a trading range, the bears will begin to short for swing trades, expecting
deeper pullbacks and a possible trend reversal.
Other examples of breakout pullback buy setups in this bull trend include the bar 8 high 2 bull flag (a pullback from the rally to bar 6, which broke
out of the bear channel from bar 3 to bar 5), the bar 12 high 2 at the moving average (bar 11 broke above the trading range and out of the bar 10
high 1 bull flag; the first push down was the bear bar that formed two bars after bar 11), the bar 14 outside up bar (traders could have bought as it
went outside up, but the probability of success was higher if they bought above bar 14, because it was a bull trend bar), the bar 20 ii, the high 2 at
bar 23 (bar 23 was the entry bar), and the bar 25 high 2 (all double bottoms are high 2 patterns). The signal bar is more reliable when it has a bull
body.
In general, whenever there is an initial pullback in a trend that has just become strongly always-in long, a trader should immediately place a buy
stop to buy above the high of the spike. This is because many traders are afraid to buy below the low of the prior bar or above a high 1, thinking that
the market might have a two-legged pullback. However, if they wait for a two-legged pullback, they will miss many of the very strongest trends. To
prevent themselves from being trapped out of a strong trend, traders need to get into the habit of placing that last-ditch buy stop. If they buy the high
1, they can cancel their buy stop. But if they miss the earlier entries, at least they will get into the trend, which is what they need to do. By bar 19, the
trend was clearly very strong and was likely to continue up for about a measured move based on the height of the spike. As soon as the market
gave a sign of a possible pullback, traders needed to place their worst-case entry buy stop orders above the spike high. The bar after bar 19 was a
bear trend bar and a possible start of a pullback. They needed to place a buy stop at one tick above the bar 19 high, in case the trend quickly
resumed. If they instead bought the bar 20 ii high 1 setup, they would have canceled the buy stop above bar 19. However, if they missed buying the
high 1 for any reason, at least they would have been swept into the trend as the market moved to the new high. Their initial protective stop would
have been below the most recent minor pullback, which was the bar 20 low.
Bar 24 was a two-bar bull spike and the third consecutive buy climax without a correction. There was not enough time left in the day for a 10-bar,
two-legged correction, so not many bears were willing to short it, especially since the move up from bars 5 and 12 had had so little selling pressure.
However, some bulls used it as an opportunity to take profits, which turned out to be a reasonable decision, since the market did not get back
above its high for the rest of the day.
Traders know that most attempts to reverse a trend fail, and many like to fade the attempts. The bar before bar 12 was a large bear trend bar,
which was a break below the trend line and an attempt to reverse down from the bar 11 bull breakout. Bulls bought the close of the bear trend bar,
expecting a move back up to its high, and probably a measured move up equal to the height of the bar. Once they saw that bar 12 had a bull close,
they bought the close of bar 12 and above its high. A successful bear breakout usually is followed by another bear trend bar or at least a doji bar,
and if there is instead a bull body, even a small one, the odds of a failed breakout attempt become higher, especially when the bar is at the moving
average in a bull trend. The bears wanted a bear channel after the bear spike, or some other type of bear trend, but the bulls saw the bear spike as
an opportunity to buy during a brief discount. Bear spikes, especially on daily charts, can be due to news items, but most fail to have follow-through,
and the longer-term bullish fundamentals win out, leading to a failed bear breakout and a resumption of the bull trend. The bears get excited and

hopeful because of the terrible news, but the news is usually a one-day minor event and trivial compared to the sum of all of the fundamentals.
Figure 1.2
 Breakout Pullback
Figure 1.2
 shows that when a bull swing has a breakout to the upside, the market usually tests back into the breakout gap. The market sold off
down to bar 8 and then reversed up. Bar 12 was a second-entry moving average gap bar short, but it failed. Instead of testing the bear low, the
market broke to the upside on bar 13. The low of the bar after the breakout bar and the high of the bar 11 breakout point created a breakout gap.
Either its middle or the high of the first leg up to bar 11 could lead to a measured move up. After the bar 13 spike up, there was a tight four-bar
channel that ended at bar 15 and then a test down to the bottom of the channel. The bar 19 test also tested into the breakout gap, which usually
happens in these situations.
The selloff from bar 5 to bar 8 had no pullbacks, and the bar after bar 8 was the first bar that traded above the high of the prior bar. Why would
experienced traders ever buy back their highly profitable shorts when the first pullback in a strong trend usually fails? They have learned that they
should always look for reasons to take partial or full profits, especially when they are large, because those profits can vanish quickly, especially after
a possible sell climax. Here, there were three consecutive sell climaxes (the moves down to bars 6, 7, and 8), and the inside bar after bar 7 was a
potential final flag (these patterns are discussed in book 3). The odds were high that the market would correct up for about 10 bars, probably to the
moving average, the bar 4 low, or even the bar 5 high. The bears saw this as a great opportunity to lock in their profits around bar 8, expecting at
least a 10-bar rally, and then look to sell again much higher, if a sell setup developed. The move up was so strong that there was no sell pattern, and
the bears were happy that they wisely took their profits, and they were not concerned about the absence of another good chance to short. Had they
held onto their shorts, all of their profits would have turned into losses. Profit taking is the cause of the first pullback in any strong trend. The bears
who missed the selloff were hoping for a pullback that would allow them to short, but they never got that opportunity.
The bears who missed the selloff to bar 4, or who took profits at bar 4 and were looking to sell again on a pullback, got their chance at the bar 5
low 2 at the moving average. It had a bear body and was also a 20-gap bar short setup (discussed later in this book).

Chapter 2
Signs of Strength in a Breakout
The minimum criterion for a breakout to be successful is that a trader could enter on the breakout and make at least a scalper's profit. The
strongest breakouts will result in strong trends that can last for dozens of bars. There are early signs that increase the likelihood that a breakout will
be strong enough to run to one or more measured move targets. For example, the more of the following characteristics that a bull breakout has, the
more likely the breakout will be strong:
The breakout bar has a large bull trend body and small tails or no tails. The larger the bar, the more likely the breakout will succeed.
If the volume is 10 to 20 times the average volume of recent bars, the chance of follow-through buying and a possible measured move
increases.
The spike goes very far, lasts several bars, and breaks several resistance levels like the moving average, prior swing highs, and trend
lines, and each by many ticks.
As the first bar of the breakout bar is forming, it spends most of its time near its high and the pullbacks are small (less than a quarter of
the height of the growing bar).
There is a sense of urgency. You feel like you have to buy but you want a pullback, yet it never comes.
The next two or three bars also have bull bodies that are at least the average size of the recent bull and bear bodies. Even if the bodies
are relatively small and the tails are prominent, if the follow-through bar (the bar after the initial breakout bar) is large, the odds of the
trend continuing are greater.
The spike grows to five to 10 bars without pulling back for more than a bar or so.
As a bull breakout goes above a prior significant swing high, the move above the high goes far enough for scalpers to make a profit if
they entered on a stop at one tick above that swing high.
One or more bars in the spike has a low that is at or just one tick below the close of the prior bar.
One or more bars in the spike has an open that is above the close of the prior bar.
One or more bars in the spike has a close on its high or just one tick below its high.
The low of the bar after a bull trend bar is at or above the high of the bar before the bull trend bar, creating a micro gap, which is a sign of
strength. These gaps sometimes become measuring gaps. Although it is not significant to trading, they probably represent the space
between a smaller time frame Elliott wave 1 high and a wave 4 pullback, which can touch but not overlap.
The overall context makes a breakout likely, like the resumption of a trend after a pullback, or a higher low or lower low test of the bear
low after a strong break above the bear trend line.
The market has had several strong bull trend days recently.
There was growing buying pressure in the trading range, represented by many large bull trend bars, and the bull trend bars were clearly
more prominent than the bear trend bars in the range.
The first pullback occurs only after three or more bars of breaking out.
The first pullback lasts only one or two bars and it follows a bar that is not a strong bear reversal bar.
The first pullback does not reach the breakout point and does not hit a breakeven stop (the entry price).
The breakout reverses many recent closes and highs. For example, when there is a bear channel and a large bull bar forms, this
breakout bar has a high and close that are above the highs and closes of five or even 20 or more bars. A large number of bars reversed
by the close of the bull bar is a stronger sign than a similar number of bars reversed by its high.
The more of the following characteristics that a bull breakout has, the more likely it will fail and lead to either a trading range or a reversal:
The breakout bar has a small or average-size bull trend body and a large tail on top.
The next bar has a bear body and is either a bear reversal bar or a bear inside bar; that bar closes on or near its low, and the body is
about the size of the average bodies of the bars before the breakout (not just a one-tick-tall bear body).
The overall context makes a breakout unlikely, like a rally to test the high of a trading range day, but the rally has bear bars, many
overlapping bars, bars with prominent tails, and a couple of pullbacks along the way.
The market has been in a trading range for several days.
The bar after the breakout bar is a strong bear reversal bar or a bear inside bar.
The bar after a bull trend bar has a low that is below the high of the bar before the bull trend bar.
The first pullback occurs two bars after the reversal.
The pullback extends for several bars.
The trend resumption after the pullback stalls and the market forms a lower high with a bear signal bar.
The spike breaks above a resistance level like a swing high, a bear trend line, or a bull trend channel line by only a tick or so and then
reverses down.
The spike barely breaks above a single resistance level but pulls back before breaking above other levels that are just a little higher.
A trader who bought on a stop above a prior swing high would not be able to make a scalper's profit before there was a pullback.
As the breakout bar is forming, it pulls back more than two-thirds of the height of the bar.
As the breakout bar is forming, it pulls back for at least a third of its height two or more times.
The pullback falls below the breakout point. There are no gaps between the low of any bar and the high of the bar two bars earlier.
The pullback falls below the low of the first bar of the spike.
The pullback hits the breakeven stop.

There is a sense of confusion. You feel like you are not certain whether the breakout will succeed or fail.
The opposite of all of the preceding is true for bear breakouts. The more of the following characteristics that a bear breakout has, the more likely
the breakout will be strong:
The breakout bar has a large bear trend body and small tails or no tails. The larger the bar, the more likely the breakout will succeed.
If the volume is 10 to 20 times the average volume of recent bars, the chance of follow-through selling and a possible measured move
down increases.
The spike goes very far, lasts several bars, and breaks several support levels like the moving average, prior swing lows, and trend lines,
and each by many ticks.
As the first bar of the breakout bar is forming, it spends most of its time near its low and the pullbacks are small (less than a quarter of
the height of the growing bar).
There is a sense of urgency. You feel like you have to sell but you want a pullback, yet it never comes.
The next two or three bars also have bear bodies that are at least the average size of the recent bull and bear bodies. Even if the bodies
are relatively small and the tails are prominent, if the follow-through bar (the bar after the initial breakout bar) is large, the odds of the
trend continuing are greater.
The spike grows to five to 10 bars without pulling back for more than a bar or so.
As a bear breakout goes below a prior significant swing low, the move below the low goes far enough for scalpers to make a profit if
they entered on a stop at one tick below that swing low.
One or more bars in the spike has a high that is at or just one tick above the close of the prior bar.
One or more bars in the spike has an open that is below the close of the prior bar.
One or more bars in the spike has a close on its low or just one tick above its low.
The high of the bar after a bear trend bar is at or below the low of the bar before the bear trend bar, creating a micro gap, which is a sign
of strength. These gaps sometimes become measuring gaps. Although it is not significant to trading, they probably represent the space
between a smaller time frame Elliott wave 1 low and a wave 4 pullback, which can touch but not overlap.
The overall context makes a breakout likely, like the resumption of a trend after a pullback, or a lower high or higher high test of the bull
high after a strong break below the bull trend line.
The market has had several strong bear trend days recently.
There was growing selling pressure in the trading range, represented by many large bear trend bars, and the bear trend bars were
clearly more prominent than the bull trend bars in the range.
The first pullback occurs only after three or more bars of breaking out.
The first pullback lasts only one or two bars and it follows a bar that is not a strong bull reversal bar.
The first pullback does not reach the breakout point and does not hit a breakeven stop (the entry price).
The breakout reverses many recent closes and lows. For example, when there is a bull channel and a large bear bar forms, this breakout
bar has a low and close that are below the lows and closes of five or even 20 or more bars. A large number of bars reversed by the
close of the bear bar is a stronger sign than a similar number of bars reversed by its low.
The more of the following characteristics that a bear breakout has, the more likely it will fail and lead to either a trading range or a reversal:
The breakout bar has a small or average-size bear trend body and a large tail on the bottom.
The next bar has a bull body and is either a bull reversal bar or a bull inside bar; that bar closes on or near its high, and the body is about
the size of the average bodies of the bars before the breakout (not just a one-tick-tall bull body).
The overall context makes a breakout unlikely, like a sell-off to test the low of a trading range day, but the sell-off has bull bars, many
overlapping bars, bars with prominent tails, and a couple of pullbacks along the way.
The market has been in a trading range for several days.
The bar after the breakout bar is a strong bull reversal bar or a bull inside bar.
The bar after a bear trend bar has a high that is above the low of the bar before the bear trend bar.
The first pullback occurs two bars after the reversal.
The pullback extends for several bars.
The trend resumption after the pullback stalls, and the market forms a higher low with a bull signal bar.
The spike breaks below a support level like a swing low, a bull trend line, or a bear trend channel line by only a tick or so and then
reverses up.
The spike barely breaks below a single support level but pulls back before breaking below other levels that are just a little lower.
A trader who shorted on a stop below a prior swing low would not be able to make a scalper's profit before there was a pullback.
As the breakout bar is forming, it pulls back more than two-thirds of the height of the bar.
As the breakout bar is forming, it pulls back for at least a third of its height two or more times.
The pullback rallies above the breakout point. There are no gaps between the high of any bar and the low of the bar two bars earlier.
The pullback rallies above the high of the first bar of the spike.
The pullback hits the breakeven stop.
There is a sense of confusion. You feel like you are not certain whether the breakout will succeed or fail.
To a trader, the breakout implies strength and a possible new trend. It follows a period of two-sided trading where the bulls and bears both agree
that there is value and both are willing to take positions. During the breakout, they both now agree that the market should find value at another price
and the breakout is a fast move in search of that new price. The market prefers uncertainty and quickly moves in search of it. A breakout is a period
of certainty. Bulls and bears are certain that the prices within the breakout are too high in a bear breakout or too low in a bull breakout, and the odds
of follow-through are usually about 60 to 70 percent. The market moves quickly in search of a price level where both the bulls and bears agree there
is value for them to initiate trades. This means that there is once again uncertainty, and no one knows which side will win and succeed in creating
the next breakout. Uncertainty is the hallmark of a trading range, so a breakout is a search for a trading range, for uncertainty, and a 50 percent
directional probability of an equidistant move. The channel that follows the spike usually creates an approximate top and bottom of the trading
range that typically follows. As the market is moving up in the channel, the directional probability of an equidistant move erodes and it actually favors

a reversal when it reaches the end of the channel. This is because trading range breakouts generally fail and the odds favor a move back into the
middle of the range where the directional probability is neutral. That middle of the range is the target of the breakout, and its location is unknown
until after it forms.
A breakout begins with a trend bar, which can be large or small, but it is usually at least somewhat large compared to the size of the recent bars.
Remember, all trend bars should be viewed as breakouts, spikes, gaps, and climaxes. When it is small, it is easy to dismiss its importance, but if it
is followed by some sideways price action and then a steady directional move, a breakout is underway. The easiest breakouts to spot occur when
an unusually large trend bar quickly moves the market out of a trading range and it is soon followed by other trend bars in the same direction.
Whether the breakout is a single trend bar or a series of trend bars, it is a spike. As mentioned earlier, almost all trends can be considered to be
some type of spike and channel trend. For example, if a bull breakout bar has a strong close and the next several bars also have strong closes,
small or nonexistent tails, and trending highs and lows (no pullback bars), and there is very little overlap between the bodies of consecutive bull
trend bars, then the market will likely be higher than it is at the current moment at some point before the market reverses back beyond the start of
the breakout move. If the trend continues, eventually its momentum will slow and there will generally be some type of channel.
One of the most important concepts in trading is that most breakouts fail. Because of this, entering on every breakout in the direction of the
breakout is a losing strategy. However, there are often price action events that increase the likelihood that a breakout will succeed. For example, if
there is a strong bear trend and then a two-legged rally to the moving average, going short on the downside breakout of this bear flag is a sensible
trade. However, if the market is not in a trend and there are lots of overlapping bars and many bars with large tails, the market is in balance. Both
the bulls and the bears are comfortable taking positions and a trading range is developing. If the market then has a bull trend bar that extends to the
top of or even above the trading range, the bears who were happy to sell in the middle of the range are going to be even more aggressive at this
better price. Also, the bulls who were happy to buy in the middle of the range will become hesitant to buy higher and instead will be quick to exit at
the top of the range. This behavior by the bulls and the bears creates a magnetic pull in the middle of the range, and the result is that most of the
trading will be in the middle of the range. Even once the market successfully breaks out and travels for maybe a measured move equal to the height
of the range, the magnetic pull will still tend to draw the market back into the range. This is what makes final flag reversals so reliable (discussed in
book 3).
If you look at any chart, you will notice lots of bull and bear trend bars with relatively large bodies and small tails. Each of these is a breakout
attempt and almost all fail to lead to a trend, and instead the trading range continues. On a 5 minute Emini chart, these probably represent buy and
sell programs trying to move the market. Some algorithms are designed to fade these trend bars, expecting most to fail. Experienced traders will
do this as well when they believe that the breakout will probably fail. For example, if there is a breakout in the form of a large bull trend bar, these
programs might short on the close of the bar, above its high, on the close of the next bar or two, or below their lows. If enough program trading
dollars come in on the fade side (the sell side), they will overwhelm those programs that are trying to initiate the bull trend, and the trading range will
continue. Eventually, a breakout will succeed. The breakout bar will be large, the pullbacks as the bar is forming will be small, and the breakout will
have good follow-through over the next several bars. The programs that are trying to fade the move are failing and they will cover their losing
positions and drive the trend further. The strength will attract other trend traders, many of whom are momentum traders and quickly enter whenever
they see momentum.
Once everyone is convinced that the market is now trending, it might go far before there is a pullback. Why is that? Consider an example of a
market breaking into a strong bull trend with a spike formed by three strong bull trend bars. Traders believe that the market will be higher at some
point before long and they are not confident that it will be lower within the next few bars. This makes bears buy back their shorts, lifting the market
even more. Bulls who are underinvested believe the market is going higher in the near term and that they will make more money by simply buying at
the market or on a two- or three-tick pullback than they would if they waited for an eight- or 10-tick pullback or a pullback to the moving average.
This also lifts the market. Since bulls and bears are both essentially buying at the market as it is going up, the pullback never comes, or at least it
does not come for five or more bars after the market is well above the current price.
This is discussed in more detail in Chapter 8, but traders are willing to buy at the market at any time in a breakout because they believe that the
odds are better than 50–50 that they will make at least as many points as they are risking. When the breakout is strong, the probability is usually 60
to 70 percent or more. If they buy the 5 minute Emini on the high tick when the top of the spike is four points above the low of the spike, they believe
that the odds are probably 60 percent or better that the market will go up four more points before their four-point stop is hit. How can you be sure of
this? Because it is mathematically unwise to have your risk equal your reward if the chance of success is much less than 60 percent, and
institutions would therefore not be taking this trade. Since the market is still going up, then institutions are taking the trade. Since the trade remains
valid as long as the market stays above the bottom of the spike, they are risking to the bottom of the spike. They know that the spike usually goes
up to about a measured move, so their profit target, which is their reward, is equal to their risk. If the spike grows another two points before
pausing, the spike is then six points tall. If that is the end of the spike, they will assume that there is about a 60 percent chance that the market will
go another six points higher before it falls six points. This means that all of the bulls who bought lower have a 60 percent chance that the market will
go another six points higher before their four-point stop is hit. For example, the bulls who bought when the spike was four points tall are now risking
four points to make a total of eight points on a 60 percent bet, which is a great mathematical situation. They expect that the market has a 60
percent chance of testing six points above the close of the spike, which is two points above their entry, giving them an eight-point profit target.
When a breakout is successful and leads to a trend, the momentum slows after the initial fast move, and signs of two-sided trading develop, like
overlapping bars, increasing tails, trend bars in the opposite direction, and pullback bars. Even though the trend may continue for a long time, this
part of the trend usually gets retraced and becomes part of a trading range. For example, in a spike and channel bull trend pattern, the spike is the
breakout and the channel usually becomes the first leg of a trading range and therefore will usually be retraced. Typically, the market eventually pulls
back all the way to the start of the channel, completing the second leg of the incipient trading range. In the example of that bull breakout, the market
will then usually try to bounce off that support. This results in a double bottom bull flag that sometimes leads to a breakout above the new range, and
other times it evolves into a protracted trading range like a tight trading range or a triangle. Less often, it is followed by a reversal.
On the 5 minute Emini chart, there are usually many attempts to break out every day but most fail after one or two trend bars. They most likely
represent the start of a program trade by some institution, but they get overwhelmed by opposite programs by other institutions. When enough
institutions have programs running in the same direction at the same time, their programs will be able to move the market to a new price level and
the breakout will be successful. However, nothing is ever 100 percent certain and even the strongest breakouts fail about 30 percent of the time.
When a breakout is very strong, there will be three or more trend bars with small tails and very little overlap. This means that traders are not
waiting for a significant pullback. They are afraid that there might not be a pullback until after the market has run a long way, and they want to be
certain to capture at least part of the trend. They will enter at the market and on tiny pullbacks of one or two ticks, and their relentless orders will give
the trend strength and work against the formation of a significant pullback.

The breakout bars often have large volume and sometimes they will have 10 to 20 times the volume of an average bar. The higher the volume
and the more bars in the spike, the more likely it is that there will be significant follow-through. Prior to the breakout, both the bulls and the bears
were scaling into their positions, fighting over control of the market and each trying to create a successful breakout in their direction. Once there is a
clear breakout, the losing side will cover their large position quickly with a loss, and the winning side will enter even more aggressively. The result is
one or more trend bars, often with high volume. Volume is not always especially high but when it is 10 or more times the average of the recent bars,
the probability of a successful breakout, meaning that there will be follow-through for many bars, is higher. Also, volume can be unusually high on
breakouts that fail within a few bars, but this is less common. Volume is not reliable enough to warrant following it, and the large trend bars that
comprise the spike will already tell you whether the breakout is likely to be successful. Trying to think about the volume in addition will, more often
than not, distract you and hinder your ability to trade at your best.
All successful breakouts should be viewed as spikes, since most are followed by channels and create a spike and channel trend pattern.
However, the breakout can also fail and the trading range that preceded it then becomes a final flag, if it was a flag in a trend. In fact, most
breakouts do fail but the breakout bar is so unremarkable that most traders don't even realize that there was an attempted breakout. Less
commonly, the market can enter a tight trading range after the breakout, and this is usually followed by trend resumption, but sometimes the
breakout of that tight trading range can be in the other direction, resulting in a reversal.
A breakout can be a single large trend bar or a series of large or small trend bars, and the breakout usually becomes part of one of the trend
patterns previously discussed. For example, if there is a “trend from the open” bear trend, it is likely a breakout below a pattern from the previous
day. If the trend is orderly, it might be followed by a tight trading range for several hours and then the day could turn into a trend resumption bear into
the close. If instead the breakout is accelerating to the downside with each bar resulting in a steeper slope, and the chart assumes a parabolic and
therefore climactic look, it might be followed by a pullback and then a channel. The day could become a spike and channel bear trend day.
Sometimes, after the market has been in a strong trend for many bars, it creates an unusually large trend bar in the direction of the trend. That
large bar typically either becomes a breakout into an even steeper, stronger trend, or at least another leg in the trend, or can signify a climactic end
of the trend. If the market pulls back for a few bars and does not retrace too much of the breakout bar, the odds of the breakout being successful
are good, and traders will enter on the high 1 breakout pullback if this was a bull breakout (or short a low 1 in a bear breakout).
The trend can continue even if the pullback retraces beyond the breakout point, but the deeper the pullback, the more likely it is that the breakout
will fail and the market will reverse. In this case, the large bar will represent a climactic end of the trend rather than a breakout. If the pullback is fairly
deep, traders might hesitate to enter with the trend for an hour or so. For example, if there is a large bull trend bar that breaks above a swing high or
trading range but the pullback is fairly deep, maybe a little below the top of the swing high, traders will not be certain if the breakout has failed or if
the rally is just a little overdone. The bulls in this case often will not buy for about 10 bars or so and the market will frequently enter a small trading
range. Instead of buying a high 1, they will likely wait for a high 2, especially if it forms after an hour or so. If the trading range is holding above the
moving average and about an hour has passed, bulls will look to buy a two-legged sideways or down pullback. Sometimes the sideways move is
followed by a second leg down. That second leg can lead to a new high, or to a trend reversal and more selling.
Once there is a pullback, which is a small trading range, traders will look for the trend to resume. The breakout from the pullback has an initial
target of an approximate measured move equal to about the height of the trading range. Many traders will take partial or total profits in that area,
and aggressive countertrend traders will initiate new positions.
The easiest breakout failures to spot are those where the market quickly reverses direction and does not make any significant attempt to
continue in the direction of the breakout. This is more likely to happen when there is other evidence of a possible reversal, like a breakout above a
trend channel line and then a reversal down with a strong signal bar.
The breakout can be of anything, such as a trend line, a trading range, or the high or low of the day or yesterday. It does not matter because they
are all traded the same. Fade it if it fails and reenter in the direction of the breakout if the reversal attempt fails and therefore becomes a breakout
pullback. Enter on the breakout only if it is very strong. An example of this is if there is a strong bull trend and then a two-bar pullback to a high 1 buy
setup. Traders can buy at one tick above the high of the prior bar, and they can buy more on a breakout to a new high by placing an order to buy on
a stop at one tick above the old high. Usually, however, it is better to buy a pullback or to look to short a failed breakout.
On most days, traders look at new swing highs and lows as possible fade setups. On a strong trend day, however, the breakouts are usually on
huge volume and there is very little pullback even on a 1 minute chart. It is clear that the trend traders are in control. For example, when a bull trend
is that strong, price action traders will be buying on high 1 and high 2 pullbacks instead of waiting for a breakout above the prior high of the trend.
They are always trying to minimize the risk of the trade. However, once a strong trend is underway, entering with the trend for any reason is a good
trade. In a strong trend, every tick is a with-trend entry, so you can simply enter at the market at any point and use a reasonable stop.
If there is a breakout with a large trend bar and the bar has not yet closed, you have a decision to make. If you just scalped out of part of your
trade and are now thinking about swinging the remainder, always consider how much risk you have. One way to help decide if you should continue
to hold your swing position is to ask yourself what you would do at this moment if you were not holding a position. If you would be willing to enter at
the market using a swing-size position and the swing protective stop, then you should stay in your current swing position. If instead you think that it
would be too risky to enter at the market with that amount of risk, then you should exit your swing position at the market.
When there is a breakout, both buyers and sellers see it as an opportunity. For example, if the market has a swing high and then pulls back, both
bulls and bears will enter as the market moves above that prior swing high. Bulls will be buying the breakout because they see it as a sign of
strength and they believe the market will go high enough above their entry for them to exit with a profit. Bears will also see the breakout as an
opportunity to make money. For example, bears might sell on a limit order at the level of that prior high or maybe a few ticks above it. If the market
reverses and comes down, they will look to exit with a profit. If, however, the market continues up, they will look to add to their short position if they
think the market might pull back to test the breakout. Since most pullbacks come all the way back to the prior swing high, they can exit on that
breakout test at about breakeven on their first entry and with a profit on their second, higher entry.
When traders think of breakouts they usually immediately have the image of a trading range. However, the breakout can be of anything. One
common breakout that many traders overlook is a flag breaking out in the unexpected direction, like a bear flag breaking out of the top or a bull flag
breaking out of a bottom. For example, if there is a reasonably strong bear trend and traders are not sure if a tradable low is in and they see a bear
flag forming, they might start buying below the low of the prior bars, expecting a low 1 and then a low 2 or even a low 3 to fail. Sometimes the bear
flag will have a good shape and trigger the low 2 short or the wedge bear flag short and then immediately reverse up into one or two bull trend bars.
This breakout usually creates a measuring gap that leads to a measured move up. Traders will enter on the breakout and on any small pullback;
and since bears were trapped, they will likely not be eager to short again until the market has had at least two legs up. The opposite is true of bull
flags in bull trends.
There is a special type of breakout that sometimes occurs on trend days in the final hour. For example, if the market is trending down with no sign

of a pullback, there can be one or two large bear trend bars that break out of the bottom of the bear channel. There may be a small pullback and
then a second brief breakout to a new low. At other times, the market just moves down into the close relentlessly without large bear trend bars.
What is likely happening in both cases is that risk managers at trading firms are telling their traders who have been bottom picking that they are on
the wrong side of the market and that they have to sell out of their positions at the market. The plunges usually do not have much follow-through
since they are mostly due to forced selling. There are likely some smart programmers who anticipate this and try to capitalize on it by designing
programs to go short briefly, increasing the size of the sell climax. Momentum programs are also part of the strong trend. There may or may not be
a bounce into the close after the one or two sell climaxes. The opposite is true on days that end with strong bull spikes or channels. The risk
managers are telling their traders to buy back their losing shorts before the close, and as the market is rising quickly, momentum programs detect
this and also buy relentlessly as long as the momentum continues.
One of the goals of traders is to do what the institutions are doing. Many breakouts are made of large trend bars that have the biggest volume of
the day. These are times when the institutions are trading most heavily, and they are doing so because they expect the move to have protracted
follow-through. As scary and emotional as the market can feel during a big breakout, the institutions see it as a great opportunity, as indicated by
the volume, and so should you. Try to learn to trade breakouts because they have an excellent trader's equation. If you have to, simply trade only a
quarter-size position (“I don't care” size), just to get experience. The move will often be large enough that you can make as much as you do on a
routine trade using your full position size.
Figure 2.1
 Breakouts Happen Many Times Every Day
Breakouts of some type occur every few bars on every chart, as shown in 
Figure 2.1
 in the daily chart of the Euro/U.S. Dollar Forex. Strictly
speaking, if the high of a bar is above the high of any prior bar or the low of the bar is below the low of any prior bar, it is a breakout of that bar.
Also, every trend bar is a breakout (remember from book 1, every trend bar is a spike, breakout, gap, and climax). Many different types of
breakouts and failures are highlighted on this chart.
Bar 1 broke above a trend channel line and was followed by a breakout below its low on the next bar, setting up a two-bar reversal, which was
triggered on the bar 3 entry bar. Bar 2 was a second attempt to break out above the bull channel and it broke out above another two-bar reversal
but the breakouts failed and the market reversed down.
Bar 4 was a breakout below a swing low and it was the sixth bar is a sell climax down from bar 2. Since the range of the bar was large and it had
small tails, it might represent a sell climax that needed a correction before there was follow-through selling. This turned out to be the case, because
bar 5 was a strong bull reversal bar that turned bar 4 into a failed breakout.
There was a two-legged pullback to the moving average and bar 8 broke out of the bear flag.
Bar 9 broke above the bear trend line.
Bar 10 broke above a swing high but the breakout failed when the next bar traded below its low.
Bar 12 fell below the bar 9 entry bar and below the signal bar just before it.
Bar 13 tried to reverse back up and create a failed breakout, but that failed breakout failed on the bar 14 reversal back down. Bar 14 was also a
reversal down from the failed breakout above a micro trend line and above a bull reversal bar. When a failed breakout fails to reverse the market, it
becomes a breakout pullback.
The bar 16 break above the bear trend line failed and the bar reversed down into an outside down reversal, falling below the bear flag trend line
of the prior three bars.
Bars 16 to 18 created a four-bar breakout composed of strong bear trend bars with large bodies, small tails, and very little overlap. The bulls who
scaled into longs within the trading range finally capitulated and not only stopped buying, but had to sell out of their large long positions quickly
without waiting for a pullback. They were not confident that a pullback would come soon and were confident that the market would be lower within a
few bars. This means that getting out at the market or on a tiny pullback within the bar was their best option. Their long liquidation and their lack of
buying for several bars contributed to the strength of the sell-off. When a breakout is that strong, it usually is followed by a channel and often leads to
a measured move from the open of the first bar to the close of the final bar in the spike. The bar 36 low was just below that measured move
projection, and that ended the channel. The market then usually works its way back up to test the first reasonable buy signal after the spike, which
was the high of the bar 19 bull inside bar. If it gets there, it next tries to test the start of the bear channel, which was the bar 20 high.
Bar 20 was an attempt to make the four-bar breakout fail but when a breakout is that strong, there is usually follow-through and the failure will
typically fail and just become a breakout pullback, as it did here. The market reversed back down just shy of the bar 15 breakout point and the
moving average. Whenever a market turns back down without touching a resistance level, the bears are very strong because they are not waiting
for the resistance to be touched. The bears are afraid that the bulls might not be able to get the market up there, so the bears have limit orders just
below. This is a sign of urgency by the bears. That gap between the breakout point (the bar 15 low) and the breakout pullback (the bar 20 high)
usually becomes a measuring gap and often is the approximate midpoint of the move. The start of the bear trend was the bar 2 high, and the
market ultimately fell below the gap by more than the number of points between the bar 2 high and the middle of the measuring gap. The breakout
and the strong reversal down on the breakout test established the bear trend as very strong, and traders should only look for shorts for the rest of

the day. There might be a long scalp or two, but a trader should take them only if the trader is able to immediately reverse back to short as soon as
a bar falls below the low of the prior bar, indicating that the small pullback might be ending. Incidentally, Elliott Wave traders see the pullback as the
top of wave 4 and the breakout point as the bottom of wave 1. The two cannot overlap if the downward wave 3 in between is in fact wave 3, which is
usually the strongest wave of the trend.
Bar 22 was a large-range bear bar that broke below the bottom of a four-bar channel. It was arguably the third consecutive sell climax (the first
was bar 14 and the second was the four-bar spike down to bar 18). The market usually has at least a 10-bar, two-legged correction after two or
three consecutive climaxes. Here, however, that four-bar bear spike was the overwhelming feature of the day and was the beginning of a strong
breakout. Yes, it was a spike and therefore a sell climax, but it was so large that the character of the market changed and any counting has to start
all over. Once it formed, traders decided that there was going to be a strong move down, and a channel is the most common pattern that follows a
strong spike. Channels often have three pushes before they correct, and this one did as well. The three pushes were bars 18, 25, and 36, and they
were followed by a weak rally into the close.
Bar 23 was a reversal attempt after the bar 22 sell climax and overshoot through the bottom of the three-bar bear channel. However, it is a
mistake to be looking for a long based on these few bars when the big picture is so bearish. The market is always trying to reverse trends, and it is
easy to get caught up in the emotion of a bottoming pattern as it happens in real time; but you should never lose sight of the big picture. That four-
bar bear spike was very strong, and the always-in position is still short. Any attempt at a bottom at this point will almost certainly result in a bear flag,
as it did here. The market always has inertia, and when it is trending, expect all reversal attempts to fail.
Bar 25 was a second attempt to reverse up after the breakout below the bars 20 to 21 channel. Since the signal bars for both attempts had
strong bull bodies, the market might test the moving average. Most traders should not take this trade and instead should stay short. Too often,
traders will scalp the countertrend trade for a point and then do not reverse back to short, and they miss out on making four or more points on the
with-trend trade. It can be difficult to change your mind-set quickly back to short if you just went long, and if you cannot do this easily, do not take the
countertrend scalp and then miss the swing down.
Bar 26 broke out of the top of the channel, as expected.
Bar 27 broke above the bear trend line and above the bar 18 breakout point but failed and reversed down on the next bar.
Bar 28 was a breakout of a three-bar bear flag.
Bar 29 broke below the bar 26 long entry bar but it found buyers, as seen by the large tail.
Bar 32 was another test of a bear trend line and therefore an attempted breakout, but it failed.
Bar 35 was another large bear trend bar and therefore another possible sell climax. When the market begins to form second and third sell
climaxes within a short time, it is likely to reverse for at least a two-legged correction.
Bar 36 broke below the measured move but did not find sellers. Instead, it found quiet trading, which might be signaling a failed breakout of the
bars 22 to 34 bear flag. A horizontal bear flag after a long bear trend often becomes a final flag and is typically followed by at least two legs
sideways to up. Bar 36 was also the third push down in the bear channel and that usually leads to at least a reversal attempt.
The bar after bar 36 broke above the bar 36 high and became the entry bar for the long.
Bar 37 was a bull breakout bar above the bear trend line.
Bar 38 broke above the strong bar 35 bear trend bar, and there were certainly many buy stops for shorts above this bar because its large bear
body represented strong selling. Once the market got above its high, lots of bears decided that there was no longer enough strength to stay short
and they bought back their shorts (short covering) into the close.
Figure 2.2
 Flags Can Break Out in the Less Likely Direction
Flags can sometimes break out in the unexpected direction and lead to measured moves. In 
Figure 2.2
, there was a failed wedge bear flag that
broke to the upside on bar 9. The measuring gap between the high of the bar 7 breakout point and the bar 10 breakout test led to an almost perfect
measured move up.
Bar 3 was a low 1 short setup, but after three strong bull bodies and the bar 2 sell climax, it was likely to fail. Aggressive traders would have gone
long on limit buy orders at and below the bar 3 low. Bar 5 was an entry bar for a low 2 short, but after the strong bar 4 outside up bar the market
might have been making a low of the day. Again, aggressive traders would have gone long at or below the low of the low 2 signal bar. Bar 7 was a
signal bar for a wedge bear flag short, but the market was in a bull channel and the bar 4 outside up bar made the always-in trade long. Rather than
short below bar 7, bears should have waited to see if the market formed a lower high. Bulls went long above bar 8, expecting a measured move up
from the failed wedge bear flag.
There was then a failed low 2 bear flag buy setup above bar 22 and the entry bar was a bull trend bar. This breakout also led to a measured
move up. Bar 21 was the bottom of a bear channel on a bull day and bar 22 was the breakout pullback from that channel breakout, so alert traders
thought that the low 2 had an excellent chance of failing and leading to a test of the high of the day.
The low of bar 26 reversed the lows of the past 12 bars (it was below those lows) and the closes of the past 13 bars. Its close reversed these

same lows, which is significant because a close below a low is more of a sign of strength than simply a low that is below a prior low. The more lows
and closes that are reversed, the stronger the reversal. Every trader who bought during those prior 12 bars is now holding a loser and will look for
any small bounce to sell out of his longs. Many sold on the next bar and created the tail on the top of the bar. Also, those bulls will not likely look to
buy again for at least a few bars.
Figure 2.3
 Small Breakout Bar
As shown in 
Figure 2.3
, although big breakout bars like bars 3 and 19 often lead to big trends, sometimes a small breakout bar like bar 12 can be
the start of a protracted move. After the bar 9 bear spike, traders wondered if the rally to bar 11 might become a low 2 bear flag at the moving
average (bars 10 and 11 were two pushes up). However, instead of breaking to the downside, the market broke above the bar 10 and bar 11
double top (this made the rally a final flag, since it was the final flag of the bear trend, even though it never broke to the downside). The bar 12
breakout bar was small, but it was enough to make traders begin to discard the notion that the move to bar 11 was a bear flag, and they began to
wonder if bar 9 was an exhaustive sell climax, which could correct for 10 or more bars. The bar after bar 12 was also small, but it had two signs of
strength: a bull body and a low that did not fall below the bar 11 high (the breakout point). Although the rally to bar 14 did not cover many points, it
was a relentless bull trend and became the first of two legs up (the second began with the bar 18 double bottom with bar 15, and the triangle
formed by the lows of bars 13, 15, and 18).

Chapter 3
Initial Breakout
On 5 minute charts of most markets, there are usually at least a couple of successful significant breakouts every day. Most breakouts begin with a
single trend bar that is usually larger than the previous bars and has no tails or only small tails. In the strongest breakouts, there will be a series of
trend bars with very little overlap. For example, in a strong bull breakout on the 5 minute Emini chart, as soon as the breakout bar closes, some
traders will place limit orders to buy at the closing price of that bar. If the next bar opens at that price and immediately trades up without going below
that price, the limit orders will likely not get filled and these bullish traders will be trapped out of the market. They will experience a sense of urgency
because they are afraid of missing the move and will look to get long as soon as possible, using either a market order or a limit order to buy any
one- or two-tick or small pullback, or they will switch to a smaller time frame chart like a 1 or 2 minute, and then enter on a high 1 or high 2 pullback.
This is often hard to do emotionally and it is comparable to jumping off a high diving board. What might work in both situations is to just do it: pinch
your nose, close your eyes tightly, tense up every muscle in your body, and trust that you won't get hurt too badly and that the bad feelings will end
quickly. If you are trading the Emini, you simply buy the small pullback and rely on your stop. If the breakout is good, your stop will not be hit and you
will have a good chance of making two to even six or more points over the next many bars while risking about two points.
If, instead of having several strong bull trend bars in a row, the bar after a one- or two-bar breakout is a small bar, a doji, an inside bar, a bar with
large tails, or a bear trend bar, the breakout might fail. This could lead to a reversal back into the trading range, a trend reversal into a bear trend, or
a failed reversal, which is simply a one- or two-bar pullback that is followed by a resumption of the upward move. When the breakout is successful,
it will create some version of a spike and channel trend.
A breakout entry appears deceptively easy to take when you see it on the chart at the end of the day. However, in real time, the setups tend to be
either unclear or clear but scary. Entering on the breakout or after the breakout bar closes is difficult to do, because the breakout spike is often
large, and traders have to quickly decide to risk much more than they usually do. As a result, they often end up choosing to wait for a pullback. Even
if they reduce their position size so that the dollar risk is the same as with any other trade, the thought of risking two or three times as many ticks
frightens them. Entering on a pullback is difficult because every pullback begins with a minor reversal, and traders are afraid that the pullback might
be the start of a deep correction. If the reversal is just for a bar to two and sets up a breakout pullback entry, they are afraid to enter because they
are concerned that the market might be entering a trading range and they do not want to buy at the top if the market is having a bull breakout, or sell
at the bottom if there is a bear breakout. Trends do everything that they can to keep traders out, which is the only way they can keep traders chasing
the market all day. When a setup is easy and clear, the move is usually a small, fast scalp. If the move is going to go a long way, it has to be unclear
and difficult to take, to keep traders on the sidelines and force them to chase the trend.
You will regularly hear pundits discuss a one- or two-day sell-off in a stock that resulted from a bad report, like a disappointing earnings report or
a change in management. They are deciding if the news is just a one-day event in an otherwise strong bull trend, or if it will change the outlook for
the stock for the next several months. If they conclude that the odds favor the bull trend, they will buy around the bottom of the bear spike. If they think
that the news was so severe that the stock will remain under pressure for months, they will not buy, and in fact will look to sell out of their longs on the
next rally. Technical traders see the sell-off as a bear breakout and evaluate the stock in terms of the strength of the breakout. If the spike looks
strong, they will short rallies, and maybe even the close of the bar, expecting a bigger spike, a spike and channel, or some other type of bear trend.
If it looks weak relative to the bull trend, they will buy around the close and low of the bear trend bar, expecting a failed breakout and for the trend
reversal attempt to become just another bull flag.
Figure 3.1
 Breakouts with Many Consecutive Trend Bars Are Usually Strong
The strongest breakouts have a sense of urgency and have several trend bars in a row, as happened in the trend from the open bull trend day in
RSX, the Market Vectors exchange-traded fund (ETF) for Russia shown in 
Figure 3.1
. The market broke above the trading range that formed in the
final hour of yesterday. Notice how the lows of several of the bars in the breakout did not drop below the close of the prior bar. This means that bulls
who waited for the bar to close and then immediately placed limit orders to buy at the level of that close would likely not have their orders filled and
they would be trapped out of the market. The market was running away from them and they knew it and would then take any reason to get long. This
urgency caused the market to rise sharply. This series of bars should be considered to be a bull spike. A bull spike is usually followed by a bull
channel, and together they constitute a spike and channel bull trend.
Bar 6 was an inside bar and the first pause, and this is usually a reliable high 1 long entry in a trend from the open bull trend day. However, when
the trend is this strong, you can just buy at the market or buy for any reason at all. Did it rain somewhere in the Amazon last year? Then buy. Did

someone on your kid's high school basketball team score a point last year? Then buy more. You need to get long and stay long because there is
probably better than a 70 percent chance that the market will make a measured move up equal to or greater than the approximate height of the
spike (the low or open of bar 1 to the close or high of bar 4 or 8, and add this many points to the closes of those bars). The exact probability is
never knowable, but from experience this is a very strong breakout and the probability of the measured move is likely greater than 70 percent here.
The measured move up from the open of bar 1 to the close of bar 4 was the price level where the market paused at the top of bar 8. The measured
move based on the open of bar 1 to the close of bar 8 was exceeded by 3 cents on the close of the day (not shown).
Figure 3.2
 Successful Breakouts Need Follow-Through
Breakouts are common on the 5 minute Emini chart, but strong, successful ones that have several bars of follow-through, like at bar 1 and bar 11 in
Figure 3.2
, usually happen only one to three times a day.
Bar 1 broke above the top of a small wedge, and it had a small tail at the top and bottom and was a large bull trend bar.
Bar 2 was a small bear inside bar and is a signal bar both for a failed breakout short and a breakout pullback long. Remember that an inside bar
is a one-bar trading range and a setup for a breakout in either direction. Breakouts often lead to measured moves, and one common pattern is a
measured move from the open or low of the spike to the close or high of the spike, and then projected up from the close or high of the spike. Here,
the move to the bar 3 high of the day was a measured move from the open to the close of the bar 1 breakout bar.
The opening range often leads to a breakout to a measured move, but there are usually several possibilities for the measurement points and it is
best to watch the nearest target first. Traders should look at the low of bar 4 to the high of bar 5. Once that measured move was exceeded, traders
should look at other possibilities. A failed wedge often leads to a measured move, but traders need to consider every option that they can see. For
example, they might look at the low of bar 7 to the high of the wedge (two bars after bar 9). However, the wedge began at bar 4, and the bar 7 lower
low might be viewed as an overshoot of the actual bar 4 low. The market tried to form a wedge bear flag beginning at the bar 4 low, and it had three
pushes up (bar 5, and the spikes before and after bar 9). Using the bar 4 low to the top of the wedge for the measurement projected a move that
was exceeded by only one tick at the bar 14 high of the day. The purpose of finding these measured move targets is to find reasonable areas to
take profits, and, if there is a strong countertrend setup, to initiate trades in the opposite direction.
Bar 6 was a strong breakout to a new low of the day, but it was reversed up by the bar 7 outside up bull trend bar. When traders saw the
sideways action to bar 8, they were thinking that this was a possible breakout pullback (a bear flag) and it could be followed by another move down.
You must always consider both bull and bear alternatives. Instead of more selling, the market moved up quickly. How can such a strong bear trend
bar be reversed up so quickly? If the institutions had a huge number of buy orders, they would like to fill them at the best prices, and if they thought
that the market was likely to test below the bar 4 low before going up, they would wait to buy until after that test. As the market is getting close to
their buy zone, it does not make sense for them to buy because they believe the market will be a little lower over the next several minutes. So these
very eager bulls are stepping aside. The absence of the strongest buyers creates an imbalance to the sell side, so the market has to fall quickly for
the shorts to find someone willing to take the other side of their trade. The result is a large bear trend bar. Once the market is at a level where the
bulls think it will not fall further, they appear out of nowhere and begin to buy heavily and relentlessly, overwhelming the bears. The bears realize
what is going on and they stop shorting and begin to buy back their shorts. This means that both the bulls and the bears believe that the market will
go up, and this creates a directional probability of an equidistant move of 60 percent or more in favor of the bulls. In other words, there is a 60
percent or more chance that the market will go up two points before falling two points, and up three points before falling three points. In fact, there is
probably better than a 60 percent chance that the market will break out above the opening range and have a measured move up before there is a
two-point pullback, and this is a great trade for the bulls.
Bars 9 and 10 were breakout pullbacks after new highs of the day.
Bar 11 was a breakout of the wedge that began with the bar 5 high. It was a strong two-bar bull spike, and it was followed by two more pushes
up. Bull channels after spikes often have three pushes up, where the top of the spike is the first push up.
Bar 12 was a two-legged high 2 breakout pullback in a strong bull trend and is a great buy setup.
Bar 13 was another breakout pullback but since it would lead to a third push up, bulls had to be cautious. Once bar 14 hit five ticks above the long
entry, many bulls moved their stops to breakeven because they were wondering if the bar 14 wedge high would lead to a lengthy (10 bars or more)
two-legged pullback or even a trend reversal. Therefore, bar 15 was a bad signal for longs, who expected that any rally would end below the bar 14
wedge high and be followed by at least one more leg down. Aggressive traders shorted above its high, because a buy signal that is likely to fail
means that traders could go short where inexperienced traders just went long and they would have about a 60 percent chance of the market falling
two points to the protective stop of the weak longs before the market hit their profit-taking limit order six ticks higher. They are risking six ticks to
make eight ticks and are 60 percent confident that they will win, and this is a logical bet.
Bar 16 was a bear breakout below a head and shoulders top, but since most topping patterns are really just bull flags, there was a good chance
that the breakout would fail. Bulls could have bought above the small doji inside bar that followed, but this would be somewhat risky because doji
bars are not reliable signal bars. Once they saw the bar 17 bull trend bar, buying the wedge bull flag became a more reliable pattern. Buying above
a strong bull bar increases the odds for success because the market has already shown some strength. Since strong breakouts usually have

several trend bars in a row and not a small doji bar for the next bar, traders saw this as a warning that the bear breakout was weak.
Figure 3.3
 Watch Charts and Not the News
As shown in 
Figure 3.3
, some news must have been released that led to a sharp sell-off at 10:30 a.m. PST. You should never pay attention to the
news, aside from knowing when it will be released, because it creates a distance between you and what you have to do. It requires thought that you
then have to reconcile with the chart, which can only reduce your profit. The chart tells you all that you need to know. Something happened that made
the institutions sell aggressively, and that is all the information that a trader needs. It is time to look for short setups.
Bar 1 was a strong bull trend bar that trapped early buyers who bought the candle pattern or a smaller time frame reversal. A buy was not even
triggered on this 5 minute chart, since the next bar did not go above the bar 1 high. These bulls would exit below the low of bar 1 and wouldn't look
to buy again until more price action unfolds. Place an order to short on a stop at one tick below the low of bar 1, which is where those longs will
have their protective stops, and as they cover they will provide plenty of downside fuel. If it gets hit, you know the trapped longs will get out and not
want to buy again soon, and the smart bears will be adding to their shorts. With no one left to buy, the market will almost certainly provide a
scalper's profit and likely much more.
Bar 5 is the third overlapping bar and at least one of the bars was a doji (all three were). This is barbwire, which is usually a continuation pattern
and, like with any trading range, you should never buy at its high or sell at its low. You can fade small bars at its extremes and, since all horizontal
trading ranges are magnets and often become final flags, you can wait for a trend bar breakout to fail and look for a reversal back into the range.
Here, bar 7 closed above its midpoint and therefore met the minimum requirement for a reversal bar, and it followed a third consecutive sell climax.
This is usually followed by at least a 10-bar, two-legged correction.
Bars 3 and 5 were classic candle pattern traps. Traders who memorize candle reversal patterns will be eager to buy these very large candles
with long bull tails because they will see the long tails and the closes near the highs as evidence that the bulls were gaining control. When you see a
big bar with a long tail and a small body in a bear trend, it tells you that if you buy above its high, you are paying way too much. In a bear trend, you
want to buy low, not at the top of a huge bar with a small body when the market is in a tight bear channel and there has been no prior bull strength or
trend line break. Bar 5 was an even better candle pattern trap than bar 3 since it was a gravestone doji, which candle novices worship. Also, the
market traded above the high of the bar, seeming to confirm the strength of the bulls, and it was a second attempt at a bottom (a double bottom with
bar 3). But what went wrong? When you see these small-bodied big candles in a strong trend where there has yet to be a trend line break, you
should get excited because they are great traps and therefore perfect short setups. Just wait for the small bar that usually follows. Its lack of upside
follow-through makes these early bulls very scared. Everyone knows where those bulls are putting their protective stops, so that is exactly where you
should be putting your entry stop to go short. When you see those big doji candles, you, too, see bullish strength, but then assume that since the
price was hovering at the high of those bars and the bulls were now in balance with the bears, the highs of those bars are likely to be in the middle
or top of a trading range and not at a bottom.
The two-legged sideways move to bar 6 broke a trend line. Traders then knew that the bulls were getting eager to buy, so a perfect long setup
would be a failed breakout to new lows. Smart traders just waited for a one- or two-bar break below bars 3 and 5 and then started placing buy
orders at one tick above the high of the prior bar. They were prepared to keep moving the orders down if they didn't get filled. If the move continued
too far down, they would have waited for another trend line break before looking to buy again because the trend would have resumed and this setup
would have failed to trigger. The earlier bulls with two or three losses would wait for confirmation this time and enter late, and this would provide
additional fuel for the upward move after the price action longs got in.
Even though bar 7 had a bear body, at least it closed above its midpoint, indicating some strength. Presumably, bulls were a little cautious after
losing on entries from bars 1, 3, and 5. Also, it was a failed breakout from barbwire, which often forms the final flag of a trend. The odds were high
that this would be a profitable long and smart traders would have been anticipating it, so there was no excuse to miss it.
The entry bar had a bull body, albeit small, which was constructive. Also, it was an inside body variant (its body was inside the body of the signal
bar, which is a weaker version of an inside bar), which meant that the bears did not take control. At this point, longs were feeling confident because
their protective stop was not hit on the bar after entry, as was the case for the earlier bulls.
The next three bars were all bull trend bars with closes above the prior close, so the closes were in a bull trend. It is reasonable to assume that
there will be two legs up, but almost certainly there will be a stop run down before the second leg. The breakeven stop was not hit on the violent
move down in bar 8, which turned into a bullish outside bar and the start of the second leg up (a higher low). Whenever there is a strong outside up
bar that breaks the market into a new trend, its low is the start of the trend and all bar counting gets reset. For example, the two-bar reversal at bar 9
was a low 1 setup and not a low 2.

The targets for the rally were the bull signal bar highs in the bear (the highs of bars 3 and 5 and possibly bar 2). Bar 9 exceeded the final target by
one tick. The momentum was so strong that the bar 8 low was likely just part of the first leg up and not the start of the second leg up, and there
instead should be a bigger pullback and then a second leg up (it ended at bar 11).
Bar 11 set up a low 2 short from the rally up from the bar 8 low.

Chapter 4
Breakout Entries in Existing Strong Trends
When a trend is strong and there is a pullback, every breakout beyond a prior extreme is a valid with-trend entry. The breakout usually has strong
volume, a large breakout bar (a strong trend bar), and follow-through over the next several bars. Smart money is clearly entering on the breakout.
However, that is rarely the best way to trade a breakout, and price action traders almost always find an earlier price action entry like a high 1 or 2 in
a bull trend. It is important to recognize that when a trend is strong, you can enter at any time and make a profit if you use an adequate stop. Once
traders see that a trend is strong, some traders do not take the first entries because they are hoping for a larger pullback, like a two-legged
pullback to the moving average. For example, if the market just became clearly always-in long and the initial bull spike has three good-sized bull
trend bars with small tails, a trader might be afraid that the move was a little climactic and decide that he wants to wait for a high 2 buy setup.
However, when a trend is very strong like this, the first couple of entries are usually just high 1 buy setups. Aggressive traders will place limit orders
to buy below the low of the prior bar, expecting any reversal attempt to fail. Once the market trades below the low of the prior bar, they will expect a
high 1 buy setup to lead to at least a new high and probably a measured move up, based on the height of the bull spike. If traders fail to take either
of these two early entries, they should train themselves to guarantee that they get into this strong trend. When they are looking at the pullback
beginning, they should put a buy stop at one tick above the high of the spike, in case the pullback is only one bar and reverses up quickly. If they fail
to take either of the early pullback entries and the market begins to race up without them, they will be swept into the trade and not be left behind. On
the strongest trades, you will usually see that the bar that breaks above the bull spike is usually a large bull trend bar, and this tells you that many
strong bulls believe that there is value buying the new high. If it is a great entry for so many of them, it is a great entry for you as well.
One quick way to determine the strength of a trend is to see how it reacts after it breaks beyond prior trend extremes. For example, if a bull trend
has a pullback and then breaks above the high of the day, does it find more buyers or sellers on the breakout? If the market moves far enough up
for the breakout buyers to make at least a scalper's profit, then the breakout found more buyers than sellers. That is one of the hallmarks of a strong
trend. By contrast, if the market raced to a new swing high but then reversed down within a bar or two, then the breakout found more sellers than
buyers, which is more characteristic of trading ranges, and the market could be transitioning into a trading range. Watching how the market
behaves at a new high gives a clue as to whether there is a still strong trend in effect. If not, even though the trend may still be in effect, it is less
strong and longs should be taking profits at the new extreme and even looking to go short, instead of buying the breakout to the new high or looking
to buy a small pullback. The opposite is true in bear trends.
In general, if you are entering on a stop at a new extreme, you should scalp most or all of your trade unless the trend is especially strong. If so, you
can swing most or all of your position. For example, if the market is in a strong bull trend, bulls will buy above the most recent high on a stop but
most will scalp out of their trade. If the market is extremely strong, they might swing most of their position. If not, bears will be shorting on every new
swing high with a limit order at the old swing high or slightly above, and they will add on higher. If the market drops after their first entry, they will exit
with a profit. If instead the market continued up, they expect the old high to be tested by a pullback within a few bars, and this would allow them to
exit their first entry at breakeven and to exit their higher entry with a profit.
Figure 4.1
 Strong Breakouts Have Many Consecutive Strong Trend Bars
As shown in 
Figure 4.1
, the rally from the bar 4 higher low became a strong bull trend (higher low after a trend line break), with seven bull trend bars
in a row as the market reversed through the bar 1 high of the day. With that much momentum, everyone was in agreement that bar 5 would be
exceeded before there was a sell-off below the start of the bull trend at bar 4. The market was in always-in mode and would likely have
approximately a measured move up based on the bull spike from bar 4 to bar 5 or from the opening range from bar 1 to bar 2, and therefore bulls
could buy at the market, on any pullback, at or below the low of any bar, above the high of any pullback, on the close of any bar, and on a stop above
the most recent swing high.
Breakout traders would have bought above every prior swing high, such as on bars 5, 6, 8, 11, 13, and 16. By bar 5, the market was clearly
strongly always-in up. Aggressive bulls placed limit orders to buy at the low of the prior bar, expecting the initial pullback to only be a bar or so long
and for the market to reverse up in a high 1. Buying below the prior bar is usually a lower entry than buying above the high 1. If traders preferred to
enter on stops and did not buy at the low of the bar after bar 5, they would have bought on the bar 6 high 1 entry as it moved above the prior bar. If
they instead were hoping for a deeper pullback like a high 2 at the moving average and did not take either of these two entries, they needed to
protect themselves from missing the strong trend. They should never let themselves get trapped out of a great trend. The way to do this would be by
placing a worst-case buy stop at one tick above the high of the bar 5 bull spike. The entry would be worse, but at least they would get into a trade

that was likely to continue for at least a measured move up based on the height of the bull spike. Bar 6 was a large bull trend bar with no tails, which
indicated that many strong bulls bought on that same bar. Once traders saw that the strong bulls bought the breakout to the new high, they should
have been reassured that the trade was good. Their initial protective stop was below the most recent minor swing low, which was the high 1 signal
bar before bar 6.
Pullback traders would have entered earlier in every instance, on the breakout pullbacks, which were bull flags—for example, at the bar 6 high 1,
the bar 8 high 2, the bar 10 failed wedge reversal, the bar 12 high 2 and failed trend line break (not shown), and the bar 15 high 2 test below the
moving average (first moving average gap bar buy setup) and double bottom with bar 12 (the high 2 was based on the two clear, larger legs down
from bar 14). Breakout traders are initiating their longs in the exact area where price action traders are selling their longs for a profit. In general, it is
not wise to be buying where a lot of smart traders are selling. However, when the market is strong, you can buy anywhere, including above the high,
and still make a profit. However, the risk/reward ratio is much better when you buy pullbacks than it is when you buy breakouts.
Blindly buying breakouts is foolish, and smart money would not have bought the bar 11 breakout because it was a possible third push up after the
exceptionally strong bar 6 breakout bar reset the count and formed the first push up. Also, they would not have bought the bar 16 breakout, which
was a higher high test of the old bar 14 high after a trend line break, since there was too much risk of a trend reversal. It is far better to fade
breakouts when they fail or enter in the direction of the breakout after it pulls back. When traders think that a breakout looks too weak to buy, they
will often instead short at and above the prior high.
Bears can make money on breakouts above prior swing highs by shorting the breakout and adding on higher. Then, when the market comes
back to test the breakout, they can exit their entire short position and make a profit on their second entry and get out around breakeven on their first
short. This strategy would have been possible if a bear shorted as the market moved above bars 5, 7, 9, and 14. For example, as the market pulled
back from the bar 7 swing high, bears could place orders to go short at or slightly above that high. Their shorts would be filled during bar 8. They
would then add to their short positions when they thought that the market might begin to pull back again or at a couple of points higher. They would
then try to exit all their short trades on a limit order at the original entry price, at the bar 7 high. Because bears are buying back their shorts on that
breakout test and because bulls are adding to their longs in that same area, the pullback often ends at that price and the market once again goes
up.
The reversal up at bar 4 was a breakout of the final flag of the bear trend. Sometimes final flag reversals come from higher lows and not lower
lows. The test of the old extreme can exceed the old extreme or fall short. Bar 15 was the end of the final flag in the bull trend, and the reversal at bar
16 was from a new extreme (a higher high).
Figure 4.2
 A Strong Trend Usually Has Follow-Through on the Next Day
As shown in 
Figure 4.2
, yesterday (only the final hour is visible) was a strong trend from the open bull trend day, so the odds were high that there
would be enough follow-through today to close above the open, and even if there was a pullback on the open today, the bull trend would likely reach
at least a nominal new high. Traders were all watching for a buy setup.
Bar 2 was a small higher low after a high 4 buy setup, and a double bottom with the final pullback of yesterday. The signal bar had a bear close
but at least its close was above its midpoint. Traders who missed that entry saw the market form a strong bull spike over the next two and three
bars and decided that the market was now always-in long. Smart traders bought at least a small position at the market, just in case there was no
pullback until after the market went much higher.
There were two large bull trend bars on the breakout, each with strong closes and small tails. Had you gone long at the close of bar 3, you would
be swinging a portion of your trade at this point. This means that if you were instead flat, you could buy that same position size at the market and
use the stop that you would have used had you bought earlier. That stop would now be below the bar 3 strong bull trend bar.
Bar 4 was a pause bar just below yesterday's high, and buying one tick above its high is another good entry. A pause bar is a possible reversal
setup, so buying above its high will be going long where the early bears are buying back their shorts and where the longs who exited early would
also be buying back their longs.
At this point, the trend was clear and strong and you should be buying every pullback.
Bar 6 was followed by a two-bar reversal and a third push up and was an acceptable short setup for a pullback to the moving average.
Bar 8 was a reasonable countertrend scalp (a failed breakout to a new high after a trend line break) since it was a strong bear reversal bar and
an expanding triangle top, but the trend was still up. Note that there had not yet been a close below the moving average and the market had been
above the moving average for more than 20 bars, both of which are signs of strength. If you were thinking about taking a countertrend scalp, you
would do so only if you would immediately look to get long again as the trend reversed back up. You do not want to exit a long, take a short scalp,
and then miss out on a swing up as the trend resumes. If you cannot process the two changes of direction reliably, do not take the countertrend
trade; simply hold long.
Bar 9 was a bull inside bar after the first close below the moving average and the second bar of a two-bar reversal, so a breakout above the
setup was expected to test the bull high at a minimum.

Chapter 5
Failed Breakouts, Breakout Pullbacks, and Breakout Tests
The sequence of breakout, failed breakout, either trend reversal or breakout pullback and then trend resumption is one of the most common
aspects of price action, and most trades every day can be interpreted as some variation of this process. On a larger scale, it is the basis for a
major trend reversal, which is discussed in book 3, where there is a trend line break and then a breakout pullback that tests the trend's extreme.
The sequence occurs with all breakouts, but most often with a breakout of a bull or bear flag, which is a small trend in the opposite direction of the
main trend on the screen.
Whenever there is a breakout, the market eventually pulls back and tests previous significant prices. The start of the pullback converts the
breakout into a failure, and you should look at all breakouts as failing at this point, even if they subsequently resume. If the failure succeeds in
reversing the trend, the breakout will have failed and the reversal will have succeeded. If the reversal only goes for a bar or two and the breakout
resumes, the reversal attempt will simply become a pullback from the breakout (all failed breakouts that fail to reverse the market are breakout
pullback setups for trades in the direction of the breakout). For example, if there is a bull breakout and then the market pulls back to around the
entry price, forms a buy signal bar, and triggers the long, this pullback tested the breakout (it is a breakout test), and set up a long above the high of
the most recent pullback bar. If the trend resumes, the breakout bar usually becomes a measuring gap, and if the trend reverses, the bull trend bar
becomes an exhaustion gap, and the bear trend bar becomes a breakout gap (gaps are discussed in Chapter 6). Tests can be on the bar after the
breakout or 20 or more bars later. What exactly got tested? The test is whether the breakout will succeed or fail. The market pulls back from the
breakout because of selling. The bulls are selling to take partial profits on their longs, and the bears are selling in an attempt to make the breakout
fail and flip the direction of the always-in trade to down. Both the bulls and the bears assess the strength of the breakout. If the setup and the entry
bar are strong, traders will expect higher prices. When the market pulls back to the area of the breakout, bulls who are already long, whether or not
they scalped out of some of their position on the breakout, will use the pullback as an opportunity to buy again. Bulls who missed the original entry
will also use this pullback to get long. Bears who shorted prior to the breakout, below the entry price, will believe that the market has flipped to
always-in long and it will trend higher. They will therefore use the pullback to buy back their shorts with a small loss. The bears who shorted the
breakout will see that the breakout was strong and that the attempt to make the breakout fail was weak, and they will buy back their shorts with
either a small profit or loss, or at breakeven. Since the bears now believe the breakout will be successful and that the market will rally, they will not
want to short again until the market is higher, and only if a sell signal develops.
If the setup or the breakout was weak, and if a strong bear reversal bar developed shortly after the breakout, traders will expect the breakout to
fail and for the bear trend to begin or resume. The bulls will sell out of their longs and not look to buy again for at least several bars, and the bears
will initiate new shorts or add to their current shorts. The result will be that the market will fall below the bull breakout entry price, the test of that level
will have failed, and the bear trend will have at least one more leg sideways to down.
If the breakout and the reversal are about equally strong, traders will then look at the bar after the bear reversal signal bar. If it has a strong bear
close and is a strong bear trend bar, the chances that the reversal will continue down increase. If instead it is a strong bull reversal bar, chances are
the failed breakout will not succeed, and this bull reversal bar then becomes a signal bar for a breakout pullback buy at one tick above its high.
Remember, the single most important determination that a trader makes, and he makes this after the close of every bar, is whether there will be
more buyers or sellers above and below the prior bar. This is particularly true with breakouts and failed breakouts, because the move that follows
usually determines the always-in direction and therefore lasts for many bars, and is not just a scalp.
This same process is repeated many times every day on all time frames. The breakout might simply be a quiet push above the high of the prior
bar, and the pullback can begin on the next bar; when that is the case, the breakout might be a 10-bar breakout on a smaller time frame chart. The
breakout can also be huge, like a 10-bar bull spike, and the pullback can occur 20 or more bars later. When the process involves many bars, it is a
small breakout on a higher time frame chart, with the breakout and pullback on that chart simply lasting a few bars.
Following a bull breakout, these are some of the common areas that often get by the pullback:
The breakout point (the price where the breakout began).
The top of a spike in a spike and channel bull trend. Once the market breaks below the channel, it usually tests down to the top of the
spike, and eventually to the bottom of the channel.
The top of the spike in a final flag breakout. Once the market begins to pull back after breaking out of a potential final flag, it usually tests
the swing high that preceded the flag.
The most recent swing high in a stairs pattern. Bull stairs usually have pullbacks that fall at least a little below the most recent swing high.
The top of the lower trading range in a bull trending trading range day. If it does not reverse back up, it can retrace to the bottom of that
lower trading range.
After the market rallies to the third push up in a potential wedge (a rising convergent channel), the odds are very high that it will test the
top of the second push up. Once it reverses, it usually tests to the bottom of the wedge (the bottom of the first pullback, which is the
bottom of the wedge channel).
The high of the signal bar. Even if the breakout bar breaks out above a swing high from 10 bars earlier, there will often be a test of the
high of the bar just before the breakout bar.
The low of the entry bar. If the market falls below the entry bar, it often does so in a strong bear trend bar, and the move down from there
is usually big enough for at least a scalp.
The bottom of the swing low at the start of the leg up. The market sometimes falls below the entry bar and signal bar and retraces to the
bottom of the bull leg, where it often will form a double bottom bull flag.
Any support area like the moving average, a prior swing low, a trend line, or a trend channel line (like if the market forms a wedge bull
flag).
Whenever there is a breakout, traders have to decide whether it will be followed by a trend or it will fail and reverse. Since there are many
breakouts on every chart, it is important to become proficient at this. The breakout may continue for several bars, but at some point there will be a

pullback. The countertrend traders will see the pullback as a sign that the breakout has failed, and they will enter on the assumption that the market
will reverse, at least enough for a scalp. The with-trend traders will be taking some profits, but they expect that the failed breakout won't go far
before it sets up a breakout pullback and then the trend will resume. For example, if there is a bull breakout, the first bar with a low below the low of
the prior bar is a pullback. However, traders need to decide if instead it is a failed breakout and about to lead to a reversal back down. The more
that the breakout has characteristics of a strong trend, the more likely it will have follow-through. If it has few or none of those characteristics, the
odds of it failing and reversing back down increase. Characteristics of strong trends are detailed in the first book, 
Trading Price Action Trends
, but
important features of a strong bull trend are several consecutive bull trend bars with very little overlap of the bodies, small tails, and bull strength
earlier in the day. If, however, the second bar is a relatively strong bear reversal or a bear inside bar, the breakout bar is not too large, the breakout
is the third push up, and that bar reverses back below the trend channel line, the odds of a failed breakout and a tradable short are better. If you
short below the low of that bar and the next bar is a strong bull reversal bar, you usually should reverse back to long because that failed breakout
might be failing and instead setting up a breakout pullback buy setup.
After a breakout, eventually there will be a pullback to test the strength of the traders who initiated the breakout, and the success of the test will be
determined by whether the traders enter in this area for a second time. The strongest breakouts usually do not come all the way back to the
breakout point, but some pullbacks can retrace well beyond the breakout point and still be followed by a strong trend. For example, in a bull stair
pattern, each breakout to a new swing high is followed by a deep breakout pullback. That breakout pullback stays above the prior higher low,
creating a bull trend of higher highs and lows, and then is followed by another higher high. If the breakout pullback comes back to within a few ticks
of the entry price, it is a breakout test. The test can occur on the bar after the breakout or even 20 or more bars later, or both. This test bar is a
potential signal bar, and smart traders look to place a buy stop entry order at one tick above it in case the test is successful and the trend resumes.
It is a particularly reliable breakout pullback setup.
In an upside breakout, there was probably heavy buying in the area of the breakout price and the buyers overwhelmed the sellers. On the
breakout pullback, the market is coming back down to that price area to see if the buyers will once again overwhelm the sellers. If they do, the result
will likely be at least two legs up, with the breakout being the first leg up. If, however, the sellers overpower the buyers, then the breakout failed and
there will likely be a tradable move down since the remaining longs will be trapped and new longs will be hesitant to buy again after the failure. The
buyers will have made two attempts to go up from this price area and failed, so the market will now likely do the opposite and have at least two legs
down.
If there is a pullback within a bar or two of the breakout, the breakout has failed. However, even the strongest breakouts will have a one- or two-
bar failure that in fact becomes just a breakout pullback instead of a reversal. Once the trend resumes, the failed breakout will have failed, which is
the case in all breakout pullbacks. A breakout pullback is simply a failed attempt to reverse the breakout. Consecutive failures are second entries
and therefore have an excellent chance of setting up a profitable trade. A breakout pullback is also referred to as a cup and handle, and it is one of
the most reliable with-trend setups.
Breakout pullbacks can happen in the absence of an actual breakout. If the market strongly runs close to the old extreme but does not exceed it,
and then quietly pulls back for one to four bars or so, this will likely function exactly like a breakout pullback and it should be traded as if the pullback
followed an actual breakout. Remember that when something is close to a textbook pattern, it will usually behave like a textbook pattern.
If there was a strong move or a first leg of a trend earlier in the day, then a with-trend breakout later in the day is more likely to be successful; a
failure will likely not succeed in reversing the trend, and it will become a breakout pullback. However, if most of the day has been trendless with one-
or two-bar breakouts in both directions, the odds of a failure leading to a reversal are increased.
After an initial run, many traders will take partial profits and then place a breakeven stop on the balance. The breakeven stop is not necessarily
exactly at the entry price on every trade. Depending on the stock, a trader might be willing to risk 10 or even 30 or more cents and it is still basically
considered a breakeven stop, even though the trader will be losing money. For example, if Google (GOOG) is trading at $750 and a trader just took
partial profits on half and wants to protect the rest, but GOOG has recently been running breakeven stops by 10 to 20 cents but rarely by 30 cents,
the trader might place a breakeven stop at 30 cents beyond the breakout, even though it would result in at least a 30 cent loss and not an exactly
breakeven trade.
In the past year or so, Apple (AAPL) and Research in Motion (RIMM) have been very respectful of exact breakeven stops, and most breakout
pullback tests in fact end about 5 cents shy of the entry price. Goldman Sachs (GS), in contrast, routinely runs the stops before the pullback ends,
so traders would have to be willing to risk a little if they are trying to hold on to their positions. Alternatively, they could exit at breakeven and then
reenter on a stop at one tick beyond the test bar, but they will invariably be getting back in at 60 or more cents worse than their initial entry. If the
price action is still good, it makes more sense to hold through the breakout test and risk maybe 10 cents rather than getting out and then back in at
60 cents worse.
Most major trend reversals can be thought of as breakout pullback trades. For example, if the market has been in a bear trend and then there is a
rally above the bear trend line, the pullback to a lower low or higher low is a breakout pullback buy setup. It is important to realize that the pullback
from the breakout can exceed the old extreme, so in a bull reversal, after the breakout to the upside, the pullback can fall below the bear low and the
bull reversal can still be valid and controlling the price action.
Sometimes the final pullback of a trend can also function as the first leg of a new trend in the opposite direction. For example, if there is a bear
trend, followed by a slow rally that may last 10 to 20 bars or more and then a sell climax and a reversal up into a bull trend, the channel that
contained the final bear flag, if projected up and to the right, will sometimes also approximately contain the new bull trend. That final bear flag can in
fact in hindsight be viewed as actually the first move up in the new bull trend. The plunge down can be thought of as a lower low pullback in the new
bull trend. If you recognize this pattern, you should look to swing more of your position and not be too quick to exit. Once the new bull trend
surpasses the bear flag high, it will hit the protective stops of the shorts who saw the bear flag as a weak attempt to rally and therefore likely not the
final lower high of the bear trend. After the market reverses above that high, the bears will not look for new shorting opportunities for a while. This
often leads to little or no pullback after the bear flag is surpassed, and the move up can be protracted. This same phenomenon is common as a
wedge flag is forming. For example, a wedge bear flag has three pushes up. It will often have a breakout down to a lower low after the first push up.
It will then have two more pushes up after that low to complete the wedge bear flag. Once the bear flag is complete, the market then usually will
break out of the downside of the wedge bear flag and form a new trend low.
Breakouts often fail, and the failure can happen at any point, even after just the first bar. A one-bar breakout of a tight trading range is as likely to
fail and reverse back into the range as it is to continue into a trend. Sharp breakouts on the open that last for a few bars often fail and lead to a
trend day in the opposite direction. This is discussed in book 3 in the chapter on the first hour of trading.
On daily charts, there are often sharp countertrend breakouts due to surprising news events. However, instead of the spike having follow-through
(like a channel) and becoming a successful breakout, the breakout usually fails and the spike becomes just part of a brief pullback. For example, if

a stock is in a strong bull trend and it had a surprisingly bad earnings report after the close yesterday, it might fall 5 percent today, making traders
wonder if the trend was in the process of reversing. In most cases, bulls will aggressively buy around the low and close of the bear spike, which is
always down to a support area like a trend line. They are correctly betting that the odds are that the bear breakout will fail and the bull trend will
resume. They see the sell-off as a brief fire sale, allowing them to buy more at a great discount that will be gone in a few days. Within a week or so,
everyone will have forgotten about the terrible news and the stock will usually be back above the top of the bear spike, en route to a new high.
Figure 5.1
 A Late Breakout in a Trend Can Lead to Reversal or a New Leg
Sometimes a breakout at the end of a trend can be an exhaustive climax and lead to a reversal, and at other times it can be a breakout and lead to
another channel. All climaxes end with a trading range, which can be as brief as a single bar. During the trading range, the bulls and bears continue
to trade, and both try to get follow-through in their direction. In 
Figure 5.1
, in both the sell climax down to bar 5 and the buy climax up to bar 19, the
bulls won the struggles.
Bars 1, 2, 3, and 5 ended bear spikes, and consecutive sell climaxes often lead to a correction that lasts at least 10 bars and has at least two
legs. Bar 4 was the largest bear trend bar of the bear trend and it could therefore represent the last weak longs finally giving up and exiting at any
price. This was probably the case, and the market corrected up in two legs into the close, with the first leg ending at bar 8 and the second leg
ending with the last bar of the day.
The next day, bars 15, 16, 17, and 19 were buy climaxes. The market successfully broke out of the downside of the bull channel that followed the
gap spike up to bar 15 and ended with the three pushes up to bar 17. However, whenever a correction is sideways instead of down, the bulls are
strong, and they were able to create a breakout above the three-push top. Although the large bull bar could have been caused by the last bears
finally giving up, in this case it was created by aggressive bulls successfully breaking the market above the wedge top. This bull spike was followed
by a channel that tried to end at bar 21 but was able to extend up to bar 25.
Figure 5.2
 Breakout Pullbacks
As shown in 
Figure 5.2
, bar 8 was a potential failed breakout but the breakout was strong, made up of three bear trend bars that covered most of
the day's range and had small tails and little overlap. The market pulled back to the moving average and led to a low 2 short (or a small wedge bear
flag) signal at bar 10, which was the second bear trend bar and the end of the second leg of the pullback to the moving average. A breakout
pullback is one of the most reliable setups.
Bar 12 again was a potential failed breakout to a new low of the day. This is a reversal up from a second consecutive sell climax, and reversals
from consecutive climaxes usually lead to pullbacks that have at least 10 bars and two legs. Even though the bar 12 signal bar was a doji and not a
bull reversal bar, it had a bigger bull tail than bear tail, indicating some buying and some weakening of the bears. Also, the bar 8 to bar 10 bear flag
was a tight trading range and therefore had a magnetic pull, increasing the chances that any breakout would get pulled back up to that level. Bar 11
was a breakout bar and therefore it created a breakout gap. Breakout gaps usually get tested, as do breakout points. The bar 1 low was the
breakout point. The bears wanted the pullback to stay below bar 1, and the bulls wanted the opposite. At a minimum, the bulls wanted the market to
get back above the bar 1 low and stay there so that most traders would see the breakout as a failure. This would have probably ended the bear
trend. Finally, the trading range of the first couple of hours was about half of an average daily range, and this increases the odds that any breakout
up or down would be followed by a trading range of about the same size, creating a trending trading range day. Therefore, bulls should be expected
to come in around the bar 12 price level, which was a measured move down from the first leg down on the day (bar 2 to bar 4).
Bar 31 is a pullback from a small rally that broke above a minor swing high and almost broke to a new high of the day. When the market almost

breaks out and then pulls back, it will trade as if it actually broke out and is therefore a type of breakout pullback. This bar 31 breakout pullback
traded down to only 2 cents below the top of the bar 29 signal bar, and when a stock is trading at $580, it is just about a perfect breakout test and
therefore a reliable long setup. The market once again found strong buyers at the price where it broke out three bars earlier. A pullback from the
breakout of a flag is one of the most reliable setups.
Once the actual breakout to the new high for the day occurred, there was a breakout pullback long entry setup at bar 33.
Although it is not worth looking at lots of different time frames during the day, smaller time frames often have reliable breakout test setups that are
not apparent on the chart that you are using for trading. For example, if you were trading the 3 minute chart, you would have seen that the bar 6 high
was a breakout test of the 3 minute bar that formed the high at bar 3 above. This means that if you looked at the 3 minute chart, you would have
discovered that the bar that corresponds to bar 6 on the 5 minute chart formed a perfect breakout test of the low of the bar on the 3 minute chart that
corresponds to bar 3 on the 5 minute chart.
Bar 28 was a strong bear bar and an attempt to break the market to the downside. As it was forming, it briefly was a large bear trend bar with a
last price on its low and below the lows of the prior eight bars, creating a strong bear breakout and reversal. However, by the time the bar closed,
its close was above the bar 26 trading range low. Most attempts to breakout against the trend fail and are faded by strong trades; they understand
that bear spikes in bull trends are common and usually are followed by new highs. At the moment that bar 28 was at the low of its bar, beginners
saw it as a very large bear trend bar and assumed that the trend was reversing sharply into a strong bear. They lost sight of all of the other bars on
the chart. Experienced traders saw the bear spike as a brief markdown in price and great opportunity to buy a discount in a bull trend. When a bear
spike like this occurs on daily charts, it is usually due to some news event, which seemed huge at the time, but experienced bulls know that it is tiny
compared to all of the other fundamentals in the stock, and that it is just one bear bar in a strong bull trend.
Figure 5.3
 Breakout Tests
Many stocks are often well behaved and will come back to test the breakout to the exact tick, as Lehman Brothers Holdings (LEH) did four times in
one day (see 
Figure 5.3
). Since many traders will enter a breakout on a stop at one tick beyond the signal bar, exact pullbacks like these will run
any breakeven stop by one tick. However, reentering at one tick beyond the test bar is usually a good trade (for example, shorting at one penny
below the low of bar 2). Alternatively, traders could risk a few cents on the pullback, avoiding getting stopped out by the breakout test. After the
trend resumes, they can move their stop to just above that test bar.
Sellers came in once again at the highs of bars 1, 2, and 3. Buyers again asserted themselves in bar 4 when the market came down to where the
buyers originally overwhelmed the sellers at the low of the day. This higher low was the second attempt for the buyers to take control of the market in
this price area and they succeeded, so there should be at least two legs up.
Figure 5.4
 Breakout Tests Can Hit Breakeven Stops

GS has been notorious for running breakeven stops over the past year, but as long as you are aware of the tendencies of the market you are
trading, you can make profitable adjustments (see 
Figure 5.4
).
Bar 8 extended 6 cents above the low of the bar 6 signal bar.
Bar 10 hit 2 cents above the bar 9 signal bar low, running an exact breakeven stop by 3 cents. Traders could avoid being stopped out and having
to short again 50 cents lower by risking about 10 cents until after there is a successful breakout test. Once the market falls below the breakout test
bar, move the protective stop to 1 cent above its high.
The bar 5 high exceeded the swing high of the final hour of yesterday by 2 cents before reversing down for the second time in this price area. The
buyers made two attempts to go above this area and failed both times, creating a double top, so the market should have at least two legs down. It
also overshot the trend channel line drawn across bars 2 and 4, and the bull trend line break down to bar 7 was followed by the bar 8 lower high test
of the bull extreme (bar 5), leading to a bear swing.
Bar 8 was a pullback from the spike formed by four bear bars that broke below the bull trend line (not shown). Traders debated whether the
breakout would fail or succeed. The bulls saw the bar 7 outside up bar, which was a double bottom with bar 3, as a sign that the bear breakout
would fail, and bought as it went outside up and above the bar 7 high. The bears saw the bear spike as strong and were looking to short a pullback.
They sold below the low of the bear inside bar that followed bar 8 (it formed a two-bar reversal with bar 8).
Bar 1, the bar after bar 2, bar 3, and the bar after bar 4 were one-bar breakout pullback buy setups.
As strong as the three bar bull spike up to bar 9 was, traders cannot lose site of the much stronger sell-off from bar 8 that preceded it. Beginners
often only see the most recent few bars and tend to ignore the much more impressive bars just a little to the left. Bar 9 was just a low 2 test of the
moving average in a bear trend. Bar 10 was a double top (with the high of the bar from four bars earlier) at the moving average and therefore
another low 2 short. Beginners again probably saw the three strong bull bar rally to the moving average as a trend reversal, and again lost sight of
the strong bear trend that was in effect. Bar 10 was just another lower high test of the moving average that followed another lower low in a bear
trend.
Figure 5.5
 A Breakout Pullback at a Top Can Be a Higher High
After a breakout from a wedge top, the pullback does not have to be a lower high. In 
Figure 5.5
, there were two wedge tops that broke to the
downside, and in both cases the market pulled back to a higher high (at bar 6 and bar 11).
The market was in a trading range from August to October before breaking to the upside, and it had a lot of two-sided trading. This was a
trending trading range pattern and the odds were high that once it reversed down, it would at least test the bar 6 high of the lower range. Once the
market fell into the lower range and did not immediately reverse back up, the next test point was the bottom of the lower range.
Figure 5.6
 Breakout Pullback Setups

GOOG formed a series of breakout pullback entries in the chart shown in 
Figure 5.6
. The sharp rally off the open broke above the bar 1 swing high
of yesterday, and the pullback at bar 5 could not even reach the moving average or the breakout point. When there is strong momentum, buying a
high 1 pullback is a good trade. The signal bar is a small doji inside bar, indicating a loss of selling power following the large bear trend bar. The
bear breakout below the bull micro trend line failed and became a pullback from the breakout above yesterday's high. There was a second long
entry at bar 6, which was a high 2. In strong trends, sometimes the high 2 entry is higher than that of the high 1 (here, three bars earlier).
Bar 7 was the third strong bear spike in the move up to the higher high. This represented selling pressure, which is always cumulative, and
indicated that the bears were becoming increasingly strong.
Bar 8 was a breakout test that missed the low of the signal bar by 2 cents. Bar 9 was a breakout test that missed the signal bar low for the bar 8
short by 4 cents. These are just observations and not needed to take the breakout pullback shorts at bars 8 and 9.
Bar 9 was a low 2 short setup at the moving average and it was a bear trend bar, which is a reliable combination. This was followed by an inside
bar, creating another breakout pullback short entry on bar 10. It was also the first clear lower high and the possible start of a bear trend.
Bar 11 broke below the bar 5 pullback and resulted in a breakout pullback short at the moving average at bar 12. Bar 12 was another lower high
and a double top bear flag with bar 9. Double tops do not have to be exact. Bar 12 was also the pullback from the bear spike down to bar 11 and
the start of a bear channel, which had several more bear spikes in it.
Bar 13 broke only 5 cents below bar 11 but quickly gave a breakout pullback short entry at the bar 14 low 1. Since bar 14 had a bull body, a more
cautious trader would have waited for a second entry. The doji bar following bar 14 was an acceptable entry bar, but selling the outside bar that
followed this doji bar was even better because it was a low 2. Why was it a low 2? Because it followed two small legs up. Bar 14 was the first leg
up, and the outside bar two bars later traded above that small doji bar, creating a second leg up (and the low 2 short entry).
Bar 15 was also an outside bar short entry for the pullback following the breakout below bars 11 and 13. It was especially good because there
were trapped longs who had bought the two bar-bull reversal, thinking that it was a failed breakout below the bar 11 and bar 13 double bottom.
Whenever a breakout below a double bottom tries to reverse up and fails, it is a failed wedge pattern and often has about a measured move down.
The double bottom creates the first two pushes down, and the breakout below the double bottom is the third push down. Since there were four bear
trend bars down from bar 14, and smart traders would have wanted a higher low pullback before going long.
Bar 16 was a low 2 pullback after the breakout below yesterday's bar 2 swing low.
Many of these trades were tiny scalps and should not be the focus of the majority of traders. Their significance is that they illustrate a common
behavior. Traders should concentrate on trading the bigger turning points, like bars 4, 7, 9, and 12.
Figure 5.7
 Failed Breakouts
As shown in 
Figure 5.7
, there were several failed breakouts from bull and bear flags on this 60 minute chart of EWZ, the iShares MSCI Brazil Fund
ETF. Once there is a trend and then a flag that has a breakout that fails and is followed by a reversal, that flag is the final flag of the trend.
A final bull flag can reverse down after a higher high, like at bars 3 and 9 or after a lower high, like at bars 5 and 10. A final bear flag can reverse
up after a lower low, like at bars 6, 11, and 13, or after a higher low, like at bars 1, 8, and 14.

Figure 5.8
 Final Flag
Sometimes the final bear flag is also the first leg up of the next bull trend (see 
Figure 5.8
). This 120 minute chart of Tata Motors Ltd. (TTM), a
carmaker in India, had a bear flag that ended at bar 5 and became the final flag of the sell-off. The bar 6 higher low led to a sharp rally to bar 7,
which was above the bar 5 lower high and was therefore a higher high and a sign of bull strength. As discussed in the section on final flags in book
3, the breakout from the final bear flag does not have to fall below the bear low.
Figure 5.9
 Double Bottom
As shown in 
Figure 5.9
, the 5 minute Emini was in a strong bear trend down to bar 1, and this was followed by a low-momentum, rounded bear flag
that ended at bar 2. Next came a sharp sell-off to bar 3 that tested the bar 1 low. Although it was a couple of ticks higher, it was a double bottom
test of the bear low. The rally to bar 2 in hindsight was the final bear flag and effectively the first leg up of the new bull trend, and the sell-off to bar 3
was a breakout pullback from that rally and a failed breakout of the bear flag. The bull spike up from bar 3 had so much momentum that it soared
above the bar 2 bear flag without a pause. This usually indicates that there is more to go, so traders should not be quick to exit their entire long
positions. The first pullback was a high 1 at bar 4, well above the bar 2 high.
Figure 5.10
 The Final Flag Slope Can Predict Slope of New Trend
Sometimes the slope of the final flag of a trend is about the same as the slope of the new trend after the reversal (see 
Figure 5.10
). This 60 minute
chart of GS had a final bull flag from bar 1 to bar 2, and its general slope was about the same as the bear trend that followed the reversal. The
market knew the approximate rate of descent that the sell-off would have, but the sell-off was briefly interrupted by one final higher high to bar 3. The
entire pattern from bar 1 to bar 9 is a downward channel, which is a bull flag. The move up to bar 3 was a false breakout to the upside.

Chapter 6
Gaps
A gap is simply space between two prices. On daily, weekly, and monthly charts, traditional gaps are easy to spot. For example, if the market is in
a bull trend and today's low is above the high of yesterday, then today gapped up. These traditional gaps are called breakaway or breakout gaps
when they form at the start of a trend, measuring gaps when they are in the middle of a trend, and exhaustion gaps when they form at the end of a
trend. When a gap forms at other times, like within the spike phase of a trend or within a trading range, it is simply called a gap. Traders usually
cannot classify a gap until after they see what the market does next. For example, if the market is breaking out of the top of a trading range on the
daily chart and the breakout bar is a large bull trend bar with a low above the high of the prior bar, traders will see the gap as a sign of strength and
will think of it as a potential breakaway gap. If the new bull trend continues for dozens of bars, they will look back at the gap and definitively call it a
breakaway gap. If instead the market reverses down into a bear trend within a few bars, they will call it an exhaustion gap.
If the bull trend goes for five or 10 bars or so and gaps again, traders will think that this second gap might become the middle of the bull trend.
They will see it as a possible measuring gap, and many traders will look to take profits on their longs once the market makes a measured move up.
The measured move is based on the height from the bottom of the bull trend to the middle of the gap, and this height is added to the middle of the
gap. This type of gap usually is in the spike phase of a trend, and it gives traders confidence to enter at the market or on small pullbacks because
they believe that the market will work its way toward a measured move target.
After the bull trend has gone on for dozens of bars, reaches a resistance area, and is beginning to show signs of a possible reversal, traders will
pay attention to the next gap up, if there is one. If one forms, they will see it as a potential exhaustion gap. If, before going much higher, the market
trades back down to below the high of the bar before the gap, traders will see that as a sign of weakness and will think that the gap might represent
exhaustion, which is a type of buy climax. They will often not look to buy again until after the market has corrected for at least 10 bars and two legs.
Sometimes an exhaustion gap forms before a trend reversal, and because of that, whenever there is a possible exhaustion gap, traders will look at
the overall price action to see if the trader's equation warrants a short position. If there is a reversal, the trend bar that creates it is then a breakout
gap (a bar can function like a gap) and a possible start of a trend in the opposite direction.
Because all trend bars are gaps, traders can see intraday equivalents of the traditional gaps that are so common on daily charts. If there is a bull
trend that is at a resistance area and is likely to reverse down (reversals are discussed in book 3), but has one final breakout, that bull trend bar
might become an exhaustion gap. The bar is sometimes a very large bull trend bar that closes near its high, and occasionally the final breakout will
be made of two very large bull trend bars. This is a potential buy climax, and it alerts astute traders to sell. The bulls sell to grab profits, since they
believe that the market will likely trade down for a couple of legs and about 10 bars, possibly allowing them to buy again much lower. They also are
aware of the possibility of an exhaustive buy climax and trend reversal, and do not want to risk giving back any of their profits. Aggressive bears are
aware of this as well, and they will sell to initiate shorts. If a strong bear trend bar forms within the next few bars and the always-in direction flips to
down, that final bull trend bar becomes a confirmed exhaustion gap, and the bear trend bar becomes a breakout gap. The bull trend bar followed by
the bear trend bar is a climactic reversal, and a two-bar reversal. If there are one or more bars between the two trend bars, those bars form an
island top. The bottom of that island top is the top of the bear breakout gap and, like all gaps, might get tested. If it does and the market turns down
again, that breakout test forms a lower high. If the initial reversal down was strong, both bulls and bears will sell as the market tests the island top
and as the market turns down again, since both are more confident that the market will fall for about 10 or more bars. The bulls will sell to lock in
profits or to minimize losses, if they bought higher as the bull trend breakout bars were forming. The bears will sell to initiate shorts. Once the
market trades down for many bars, profit takers (bears buying back their shorts) will come in and create a pullback or a trading range. If the market
again has a bear trend bar that breaks below the trading range, that bar is then a possible measuring gap, and traders will try to hold onto part of
their shorts until the market approaches that target.
As the market turns down, traders will look at the strength of the bear bars. If there are one or two large bear trend bars closing near their lows,
traders will assume that the always-in direction might be flipping to short. They will watch the next few bars to see if a high 1 buy signal bar
develops. If one forms and it is weak (relative to the selloff), like a small bull doji or a bear bar, more traders will look to short above its high than to
buy. Remember, this is a high 1 pullback in what has been a bull trend, but now traders are looking for about 10 bars sideways to down, so more
will look to short above the high 1 buy signal bar than to buy. If they are right, the high 1 buy signal will fail and form a lower high. If the reversal down
is strong, traders will also short below the lower high and below the high 1 buy signal bar. If the market goes more sideways to down and then forms
a high 2 buy setup, the bears will assume that it, too, will fail, and will place limit orders at and above its high to go short. Other bears will place stop
orders to go short below the high 2 buy signal bar, because that is where the bulls who bought the high 2 will have their protective stops. Once these
bulls get stopped out, they will likely not look to buy again for at least a couple of bars, and the absence of bulls and the presence of bears can lead
to a bear breakout. If it is weak, the bulls might be able to create a wedge bull flag (a high 3 buy setup). If the breakout is strong, the move down will
likely go for at least a couple of small legs, and reach a measured move, based on the height of the trading range (the bull high to the bottom of the
high 2 bull signal bar). The breakout bar then becomes a measuring gap. If the bulls are successful in turning the market up at the high 3 (a wedge
bull flag), then the bear measuring gap will close and become an exhaustion gap.
This process happens many times a day on every chart, and traders are always asking themselves whether a breakout will likely succeed (and
turn the breakout bar into a measuring gap), or will it more likely fail (and turn the trend bar that formed the breakout into an exhaustion gap). The
labels are not important, but the implications are. This is the single most important decision that traders make, and they make it whenever they
consider any trade: Will there be more buyers or sellers above and below the prior bar? Whenever they believe that there is an imbalance, they
have an edge. In the case of that bull breakout, when there finally is a signal bar for a failed breakout, traders will decide if there will be more buyers
or sellers below that bar. If they think that the breakout is strong, they will assume that there will be more buyers, and they will buy below the bar.
Others will wait to see if the next bar only falls for a few ticks. If so, they will place stop orders to buy above it, and they will consider it to be a
breakout pullback buy setup. The gap will then likely become a measuring gap. The bears will see that signal bar for the failed breakout as a strong
sell signal, and they will short below its low. If they are right, the market will sell off, and close the bull gap (turning it into an exhaustion gap), and
soon move below the low of the bull breakout bar, and they hope that it will continue much lower.
“All gaps will get filled” is a saying that you sometimes hear, but this saying only rarely helps traders. The market is always coming back to test

prior prices, so the saying would be more precise if it were “all prior prices get tested.” However, enough traders pay attention to gaps so that they
act as magnets, especially when the pullback gets close to them. The closer the market gets to any magnet, the stronger the magnetic field and the
more likely the market will reach the magnet (this is the basis for buy and sell vacuums). For example, if there is a gap up in a bull trend, once there
is finally a correction or a reversal, the market might be only slightly more likely to go below the high of the bar before the gap (and therefore fill the
gap) than it is to go below the high of any other bar in the rally. However, since gaps are magnets, traders can look for trading opportunities as the
market approaches them, just as they should as the market approaches any magnet.
Gaps where the low of a bar is above the high of the prior bar, or where the high of a bar is below the low of the prior bar, are rare on an intraday
chart of a highly liquid instrument, except on the first bar of the day, when they are common. However, if one uses a broad definition, gaps of other
types occur many times every day on a 5 minute chart, and they can be useful in understanding what the market is doing and in setting up trades.
Occasionally, the open of a bar on a 5 minute chart will be above the close of the prior bar, and this is often a subtle indication of strength. For
example, if there are two or three of these gaps on consecutive bull trend bars, the bulls are likely strong. All of these gaps have the same
significance on daily, weekly, and monthly charts as well.
Because gaps are important elements of price action, intraday traders should use a broad definition of a gap and look at trend bars as an
intraday equivalents because they are functionally identical. If the volume was thin enough, there would be actual gaps on every intraday chart
whenever there was a series of trend bars. Remember, all trend bars are spikes, breakouts, and climaxes, and a breakout is a variant of a gap.
When there is a large gap up on the first bar of the day on the Emini, there will be a large bull trend bar on the Standard & Poor's (S&P) 500 cash
index. That is an example of how a gap and a trend bar represent the same behavior. When there is a large trend bar at the start of a trend, it
creates a breakout gap. For example, if the market is reversing up from a low or breaking out of a trading range, the high of the bar before the trend
bar and the low of the bar after it create the breakout gap. You can simply think of the entire trend bar's body as the gap as well, and there may be
other recent swing highs that some traders will consider as the bottom of the gap. There is often not a single choice, but that does not matter. What
does matter is that there is a breakout, which means that there is a gap, even though a traditional gap is not visible on the chart. The market will
often dip a tick or two below the high of the bar before the trend bar, and traders will still think that the breakout is in effect as long as the pullback
does not fall below the low of the trend bar. In general, if the market falls more than a couple of ticks below the high of the bar before it, traders will
lose confidence in the breakout and there might not be much follow-through, even if there is no reversal.
Whenever there is a trend bar in a potential bull breakout, always look at the high of the bar before it and the low of the bar after it. If they do not
overlap, the space between them might function as a measuring gap. If the trend continues up, look for profit taking at the measured move (based
on the low of the bull leg to the middle of the gap). Sometimes the bottom of the gap will be a swing high that formed several bars earlier, or a high
within the spike, but a couple of bars before the trend bar. The low of the gap might be a swing low that forms many bars after the breakout bar. The
same is true of a bear trend bar that is breaking out in a bear leg. Always look for potential measuring gaps, the most obvious one being the one
between the low of the bar before the bear trend bar and the high of the bar after it.
If the bull trend has been going on for 5 to 10 or more bars and then there is another bull trend bar, it might become just an unremarkable gap, a
measuring gap, or an exhaustion gap. Traders will not know until they see the next several bars. If there is another strong bull trend bar, the odds of
a measuring gap are greater and bulls will continue to buy with the expectation of the rally continuing up for about a measured move, based on the
middle of the gap.
Another common gap is between the high or low of a bar and the moving average. In trends, these can set up good swing trades that test the
extreme of the trend, and in trading ranges, they often set up scalps to the moving average. For example, if there is a strong bear trend and the
market finally rallies above the moving average, the first bar in that rally that has a low above the moving average is a first moving average gap bar.
Traders will place a sell stop order at one tick below the low of that bar to go short, looking for a test of the bear market low. If the stop is not
triggered, they will keep moving the stop up to one tick below the low of the bar that just closed until their short is filled. Sometimes they will get
stopped out by the market moving above the signal bar, and if that happens, they will try one more time to reenter their shorts at one tick below the
low of the prior bar. Once filled, the signal bar is a second moving average gap bar short signal.
Moving average gaps happen many times a day every day, and most of the time they occur in the absence of a strong trend. If traders are
selective, many of these gap bars can set up fades to the moving average. For example, assume that the day is a trading range day and that the
market has been above the moving average for an hour or so. If it then sells off to below the moving average but is followed by a strong bull reversal
bar with a high that is below the moving average, traders will often go long above that bar if there enough room between the high of that bar and the
moving average for a long scalp.
Breakouts on all time frames, including intraday and daily charts, often form breakout gaps and measuring gaps that are different from the
traditional versions. The space between the breakout point and the first pause or pullback after the breakout is a gap, and if it appears early in a
possible strong trend, it is a breakaway gap and is a sign of strength. Although it will lead to a measured move from the start of the leg, the target is
usually too close for traders to take profits and they should therefore ignore the measured move projection. Instead, they should look at the gap as
only a sign of strength and not a tool to use to create a target for taking profits. For example, if the average daily range in the Emini has been about
12 points and after about an hour into the day the range is only three points, the gap formed by a breakout would lead to a target that would result in
a range for the day of only six points. If a trend is just beginning, it is more likely that the range will reach about the average of 12 points and not just
six points, and therefore traders should not be taking profits at the measured move target.
When the distance from the start of the leg to the breakout gap (breakaway gap) is about a third to a half of an average daily range, its middle
often leads to a measured move projection where traders might take profits or even reverse their positions. For example, if the market is in a
trading range and then the market forms a large bull trend bar that breaks out above the trading range, the swing high at the top of the range is the
breakout point. If the market moves sideways or up on the next bar, the low of that bar is the first price to consider as the breakout test; the midpoint
between its low and the breakout point often becomes the middle of the bull leg, and the gap is a measuring gap. If the range is about a third to a
half of the recent average daily range, use the bottom of the leg as the starting point for the measured move; measure the number of ticks between
that low and the middle of the measuring gap, and project that same number of ticks up above that midpoint. Then look to see how the market
behaves if it moves up to a tick or so of the measured move. If within a few bars of the breakout the market pulls back into the gap but then rallies,
use that pullback low as the breakout test, and then the measuring gap is between that low and the breakout point. This is a sign of strength. Once
the market rallies to the measured move projection, many traders will take partial or total profits on their longs. If the move up was weak, some
traders might even place limit orders to short at the measured move target, although only very experienced traders should consider this.
Elliott Wave traders see most of these gaps as being formed by a small wave 4 pullback that is staying above the high of wave 1, and expect a
wave 5 to follow. Not enough volume is being traded based on Elliott Wave Theory to make this a significant component of the price action, but
whenever a pullback does not fall below the breakout point, all traders see this as a sign of strength and expect a test of the trend high. The pullback

is a breakout test.
If the pullback falls a little below the breakout point, this is a sign of a lack of strength. You can still use the middle between that low and the
breakout point even though the pullback is below the breakout. When that happens, I refer to this type of gap as a negative gap, since the
mathematical difference is a negative number. For example, in a bull breakout, if you subtract the high of the breakout point from the low of the
breakout test bar, the result is a negative number. Negative measuring gaps lead to projections that are less reliable, but still can be very accurate
and therefore are worth watching. Incidentally, stairs patterns have negative gaps after each new breakout.
Small measuring gaps can also form around any trend bar. These micro measuring gaps occur if the bar before and the bar after the trend bar
do not overlap and, like any gap, can lead to a measured move. The measured move will usually be more accurate if the trend bar was acting as a
breakout. For example, look at any strong bull trend bar in any bull leg where the trend bar is breaking into a strong bull leg. If the low of the bar after
it is at or above the high of the bar before it, the space between is a gap and it can be a measuring gap. Measure from the start of the leg to the
middle of the gap, and project up to see how high the market would have to go if the gap was in the middle of the leg. This is an area where longs
might take profits. If there are other reasons to short up there, bears will short there as well. When these micro gaps occur in the first several bars of
a trend, the market will usually extend much further than a measured move based on the gap. Don't use the gap to find an area in which to take
profits, because the market will likely go much further and you don't want to exit early in a great swing. However, these gaps are still important in the
early stages of a trend because they give trend traders more confidence in the strength of the trend.
Breakouts occur many times every day, but most of them fail and the market reverses. However, when they succeed, they offer a potential reward
that can be several times as large as the risk with an acceptable probability of success. Once a trader learns how to determine if a breakout is
likely to be successful, these trades should be considered. There are other examples of measuring gaps in Chapter 8 on measured moves.
Using this broad definition of a gap allows traders to discover many trading opportunities. A very common type of gap occurs in any three
consecutive trending bars on any chart. For example, if these three bars are trending up and the low of bar 3 is at or above the high of bar 1, there
is a gap and it can act as a measuring gap or a breakaway gap. The high of bar 1 is the breakout point and it is tested by the low of bar 3, which
becomes the breakout test. On a smaller time frame chart, you can see the swing high at the top of bar 1 and the swing low at the bottom of bar 3. It
is easy to overlook this setup, but if you study charts you will see that these gaps often get tested within the next many bars but not filled, and
therefore become evidence that the buyers are strong.
A related gap occurs after the market has been trending for many bars but now has an unusually large trend bar. For example, if the market has
been going up for the past couple of hours but now suddenly forms a very large bull trend bar with a close near its high, especially if the high of this
bar or that of one of the next couple of bars extends above a trend channel line, one or more important gaps with one or more breakout points and
breakout tests are created. Rarely, this bar is the start of a new, even steeper bull trend, but much more commonly it represents a buy climax in an
overdone, exhausted bull trend and will be followed within a few bars by a sideways to down correction that could last about 10 bars or so, and may
even become a trend reversal. Experienced traders wait for these bars, and their waiting removes sellers from the market and creates a buy
vacuum that sucks the market up quickly. Once they see it, the bulls take profits and the bears short on the close of the bar, above the bar, on the
close of the next bar or two if they are weak, or on a stop below those bars. Look at the bars before and after the buy climax bar. The first gap to
consider is that between the low of the bar after it and the high of the bar before it. If the market continues to go up for a few bars and then pulls
back and rallies again, the breakout test is now the low of that pullback. If the market trades down below the high of the bar before the buy climax
bar, the gap is then closed (filled). If the market continues down into a large leg down, the gap becomes an exhaustion gap.
Also, look at the bars before the bull breakout for other possible breakout points. These usually are swing highs and there might be several to
consider. For example, there might have been a small swing high a few bars earlier but another couple of higher swing highs that formed even a
couple of hours earlier. If the breakout bar broke strongly above all of them, they are all possible breakout points that could lead to a measured
move up and you might have to consider the projections up from the midpoint of each of these gaps. If there is a confluence of resistance at one of
the projections, like a trend channel line, a higher time frame bear trend line, or a couple of other measured move targets based on other
calculations, like the height of the trading range, profit takers will come in at that level and there will also be some shorts. Some of the shorts will be
scalping, but others will be establishing swings and will add on higher.
There is a widely held belief that most gaps get filled or at least the breakout point gets tested, and this is true. Whenever something is likely to
happen, there is a trading opportunity. When there is a bear spike and channel, the market often corrects back up to the top of the channel, which is
the bottom of the gap, and tries to form a double top for a test down. When there is a buy climax bar that breaks out above a significant swing high,
there will usually be a pullback that tests that swing high, so traders should look for short setups that could lead to the test. However, do not be too
eager, and make sure that the setup makes sense and that there is other evidence that the pullback is likely to be imminent. This might be a
sideways bull flag that breaks out and runs for a couple bars and then has a strong reversal bar, turning that bull flag into a possible final flag. Final
flags usually are followed by at least a two-legged correction that tests the bottom of the flag; they often drop for a measured move down from the
top to the bottom of the flag, and sometimes lead to a trend reversal. All of the preceding is true for bear breakouts as well.
Besides the breakout gaps that form at the start of trends and the measuring gaps that form in the middle, exhaustion gaps form when a trend is
trying to reverse. When there is a gap late in a trend and then the market reverses and closes the gap, the gap becomes an exhaustion gap and,
like all signs of exhaustion (discussed in book 3 on reversals), it is usually followed by a trading range, but it sometimes leads to a reversal. These
are more important to traders who are trading off of daily charts, but day traders see them all the time on gap openings that lead to opening
reversals. Day traders think of them as just failed gap openings, but they are a type of exhaustion gap. On the daily chart, if there is an exhaustion
gap followed by a breakout gap in the opposite direction and that gap remains open after the bar closes, this creates an island reversal pattern.
For example, if there is a bull trend and then there is a gap up that is followed by a gap down on the next bar or even a dozen bars later, the bars
between the two gaps are considered to be the island top. Figure 18.4 (in Chapter 18) shows an example of an island bottom on a daily chart.
Whenever there is a channel and then a trend bar that closes beyond the extreme of the prior bar, traders should watch to see if a gap forms. For
example, if there is a bull channel or a bear flag and the next bar closes several ticks above the high of the prior bar, this breakout bar might
become a measuring gap. Watch the low of the next bar to see if it stays above the high of the prior bar. If so, the breakout bar might be a
measuring gap. If the gap closes, the trend bar might be an exhaustion gap and the bull spike could lead to a reversal down.
Breakout gaps are discussed further in the first book in Chapter 23 on trends from the open and in the third book in the chapter on gap openings.
Figure 6.1
 Many Types of Gaps on a Daily Chart

Traditional gaps on a daily chart are classified as breakout gaps (breakaway gaps), measuring gaps, exhaustion gaps, and just ordinary gaps. For
the most part, the classification is not important, and a gap that appears as one type initially can be seen as a different type later on. For example,
gap 5 on the daily chart of AAPL shown in 
Figure 6.1
 might have been a measuring gap but ended up as an exhaustion gap. Also, when a market
is in a strong trend, it often has a series of gaps and any can become a measuring gap. Traders need to be aware of each possibility. For
example, gaps 4, 21, 25, 26, 27, and 45 were potential measuring gaps. Gap 4 was a measuring gap, and the bar 6 high was almost a perfect
measured move. The bar 2 bottom of the leg to the middle of the gap had about as many ticks as the middle of the gap to the top of bar 6, where
profit takers came in, as did new strong bears. Profit taking came in just below the targets based on gaps 26 and 45.
Breakout gaps often flip the always-in direction and therefore are an important sign of strength. Most traders would classify the following as
breakout gaps: gaps 3, 7, 11, 15, 18, 29, 32, 36, 44, and 47. When there is a breakout and a gap, look at the gap as a sign of strength and not as a
tool to create a measured move target. When a trend is just beginning, it is a mistake to take profits too early. Do not use a reasonable candidate
for a breakout gap as a measuring gap.
The rally to bar 22 broke out above the bar 6 high, and the pullbacks to bars 23 and 24 were breakout tests. The space between the bar 24 low,
where the market turned up again, and the bar 6 high is the breakout gap. Here, because the bar 24 low was below the bar 6 high, the breakout
gap was negative. Since it was a breakout from a large trading range, it had a good chance of also being a measuring gap.
Some experienced traders would have faded the breakout and shorted below bar 22, looking for a test of the breakout point and a quick scalp
down. The bulls were looking for the same thing and were ready to eagerly buy at the market or on limit orders when the pullback tested into the
gap. The bulls originally bought the breakout in the move up to bar 22, and their eagerness to buy again at the same price enabled the new bull
trend to resume and go for at least some kind of measured move up (for example, it might have been based on the height of the pullback from the
bar 22 high to the bar 23 low).
After a trend has gone on for a while, traders will begin to look for a deeper pullback. A gap often appears before the correction, and that gap is
an exhaustion gap, like gaps 5, 16, 27, 33, and 45.
When a gap occurs as part of a series in a spike or within a trading range, it is usually not classified and most traders refer to it simply as a gap,
like gaps 19, 20, 37, and 38.
Figure 6.2
 Trend Bars Are the Same as Gaps
Traditional gaps on intraday charts can usually be seen on 5 minute charts only if the volume is extremely light. 
Figure 6.2
 shows two related
exchange-traded funds (ETFs). The FAS on the left traded 16 million shares today, and the RKH on the right traded only 98,000 shares. All of the
gaps on the RKH chart were trend bars on the FAS chart, and many of the large trend bars on the FAS chart were gaps on the RKH chart,
demonstrating that a trend bar is a variant of a gap.
Figure 6.3
 Trend Bars Are Gaps

Intraday charts have their own versions of gaps. Every trend bar is a spike, a breakout, and a climax, and since every breakout is a variant of a gap,
every trend bar is a type of gap. Gaps on the open are common on most 5 minute charts. In 
Figure 6.3
, bar 2 gapped beneath the low of the final
bar of yesterday, creating an opening gap.
The market reversed up on bar 5, and at the time of the reversal, the odds of it being the start of a bull trend were good, given the strong bottom.
Because it was the start of a bull trend, it was a breakout gap. Some traders saw its body as the gap, and others thought that the gap was the
space between the high of bar 4 and the low of bar 6.
Bar 6 and bar 7 were also trend bars and therefore also gaps. It is common for trends to have gaps along the way and are a sign of strength.
Bar 11 was a breakout of the bull flag from bar 9 to bar 10 and a breakout above the opening range. Since the opening range was about half of
the size of an average daily range, traders were looking for a doubling of the range, and that made bar 11 a likely measuring gap as well as a
breakout gap.
The market hesitated for three bars between bar 12 and bar 13, in the area of yesterday's high, going into the close. Some traders saw this as
the top of today's opening range. Bar 13 was a bear reversal bar, and since the market might have traded below it, the bears saw it as a signal bar
for a failed breakout (of both the bar 9 high and the high of yesterday's close). Since the breakout was so strong, far more traders assumed that the
failed breakout sell signal would not succeed, and therefore placed limit orders to buy at and below its low. Those aggressive bulls were able to turn
the market up quickly on bar 14. The low of 14 then formed the top of the measuring gap, and the high of bar 9 was the bottom. Since bar 14 was
an outside up bar, it was a breakout pullback buy entry that triggered the buy as the market went above the high of the prior bar (bar 13). The bull
trend went far beyond the measured move target. Had the bears succeeded in reversing the market down, bar 11 would have become an
exhaustion gap instead of a measuring gap. As long as the pullback did not fall more than a tick or so below the bar 9 high, traders would have still
looked at the gap as a measuring gap, and they would have considered taking partial profits at the measured move target (the market raced up so
sharply that many would not have exited at the target). If the market fell further, traders would not have trusted any measured move up based on the
bar 11 gap, and instead would have looked for other ways to calculate measured move targets. At that point, referring to bar 11 as either a
measuring or exhaustion gap would have been meaningless, and traders would no longer have thought of it in those terms. As long as the selloff did
not fall below the bar 10 high, the bulls would have considered the breakout to be successful. If it fell below the high of bar 10, or the low of bar 10,
traders would have then saw the market as in a trading range, or possibly even a bear trend, if the selloff was strong. Bar 14 was a breakout test of
the bar 11 gap. It missed the bar 9 breakout point by a tick and turned back up. By not letting the market fall below the bar 9 high or the bar 12 low,
the bulls were showing their strength.
The market broke out again on bar 15, which meant that bar 15 was a breakout gap and a potential measuring gap. Some traders would have
used the height of the opening range for the measured move (the bar 4 low to the bar 13 high), and others would have used the middle of the gap
between the bar 13 breakout point and the bar 15 pullback.
Bars 15 and 16 were also gaps in a bull trend, and therefore signs of strength.
Bar 17 was an especially large bull trend bar in a trend that had gone on for 10 or 20 bars, and therefore it was likely to function as an exhaustion
type of trend bar and a possible exhaustion gap. Buy climaxes sometimes lead to reversals but more often just lead to corrections that last about
10 bars and often have two legs.
Bar 19 was another potential breakout gap, since it was the breakout above a small bull flag, but after a buy climax, more of a correction was
likely.
Bar 20 was an attempt at a bear breakout gap, but the body was too small; the bar did not break below the bottom of the developing trading
range (the low of the bar before bar 19).
Bar 22 was a breakout gap, and the bears hoped that it would lead to a measured move down (and therefore become a measuring gap). It had a
large bear body and it broke below a five-bar ledge and the bottom of the trading range. However, in a strong bull trend, it could simply have been
part of a test of the moving average, and it might simply have been due to a sell vacuum, with strong bulls and bears just waiting for slightly lower
prices. The bulls were waiting to buy to initiate new longs, and the bears were waiting to take profits on their shorts.
Bar 23 extended the breakout, but there was no follow-through, and like most reversal attempts and most bear breakout attempts in bull trends, it
failed. Most traders wanted to see one more bear trend bar before they would have considered the market as having flipped to always-in short. This
is a common situation, which is why aggressive bulls buy the closes of bars like 23, expecting that the bears would be unable to flip the market to
short. This allows those bulls to get long near the very bottom of the correction.
Bar 24 was a bull moving average gap bar and a signal bar for the end of two legs down from the bar 17 buy climax. Although bar 22 could be
considered to be an exhaustion gap, since it was the end of a small bear trend, most traders still saw the market as always-in long and the trend as
still up, so there was no significant bear trend to exhaust. This was a pullback in a bull trend and not a new bear trend. Bar 22 was therefore just a
failed breakout.
Bar 25 was another breakout, since the market was reversing up from a pullback in a bull trend and therefore breaking above a bull flag (the bull
inside bar after bar 23 was the signal bar for the bull flag entry). Bar 25 was a potential bear flag after the bear spike down to bar 23. Once bar 25

closed well above the bar 24 high, the bears probably gave up on their premise that a second leg down would follow. That close created the
possibility that bar 25 was a measuring gap, which it was once bar 26 turned the market up again after a one-bar pause. The rally went well above
the measured move target and 25 became a breakaway gap.
Some traders still wondered whether a bear channel might be underway, but when bar 26 went above the bear trend bar before it and above the
top of bar 22 (the bear breakout gap), the bear theory was untenable for most traders.
Bars 27, 29, 32, and 40 were also bull breakout gaps.
Bar 36 was a breakout gap but the next bar reversed down. Some traders then saw bar 36 as an exhaustion gap and a possible end of the rally
and the start of either a trading range or a larger correction.
Bars 37, 38, and 39 were bear gaps and signs of strength on the part of the bears (selling pressure).
Figure 6.4
 Intraday Gaps
This 5 minute Emini chart in 
Figure 6.4
 illustrates a number of gaps. The only traditional gap occurred on the open when the low of the first bar of
the day gapped above the high of the final bar of yesterday. However, since the first bar did not gap above the high of yesterday, there was no gap
on the daily chart.
The market trended down to bar 13 and then rallied above the moving average, breaking the bear trend line. Notice how the low of bar 14 is
above the moving average and it is the first such bar in over a couple of hours. This is a moving average gap, and these gaps often lead to a test of
the bear low and then a two-legged move up, especially if the move up to the gap bar breaks above the bear trend line as it did here. Here, it led to
a higher low trend reversal at bar 15 and then a second leg up to bar 18.
Bar 6 broke out above the highs of bars 1 and 4, which became breakout points. The space between those highs and the low of bar 6 was a
gap, and it was filled on the bar after bar 6. Day traders think of this as simply a gap up and an opening reversal down, but it is a form of an
exhaustion gap.
The bear trend bar before bar 10 opened near its high, closed near its low, and had a relatively large range. Since it formed after the market had
trended down for many bars, it was a sell climax where there was a last gasp of selling with no one left who would be willing to sell until after a
pullback, which often has two legs. That breakout bar broke below many swing lows (bars 2, 3, 5, 7, and 9), and bar 11 became the breakout test.
There was also a large gap between the bar 10 high and the moving average, and that gap was filled by a two-legged move that formed a low 2
short setup.
The middle of the gap between the bar 9 breakout point and the bar 11 breakout test led to a measured move down from the bar 8 top of the
channel down to bar 9. The hash mark below and one bar to the right of the bar 10 low is the projection down from the two higher hash marks. This
gap became a measuring gap. Instead of reversing up, as is common after a reversal up from a trend channel line overshoot, the market broke to
the downside and the bottom was at the measured move to the tick. Since you never know in advance which, if any, of the possible measured move
targets will work, it is good to draw all that you can see and look for a reversal at any of them. These are reasonable areas to take profits on shorts.
If there are other reasons to initiate a long, the chance of a profitable reversal trade increases if it occurs at a measured move. Here, for example,
the market broke below a trend channel line and the prior low of the day and reversed up at an exact measured move.
Although the rally to bar 11 was close to the bars 7 and 9 breakout points, the gap was not filled. That is a sign that the bears were strong, and it
was followed by a new bear low.
Bar 13 was another big bear bar after a protracted bear trend and therefore a second sell climax. The next bar filled the gap below the bar 10
low.
Bar 14 was a second breakout test of the bars 7 and 9 double bottom, which was the breakout point. However, instead of the market falling, it
went sideways to bar 15 and formed a wedge bull flag. This led to a rally and a closure of the gap, and the breakout below bars 7 and 9 failed. The
day tried to become a reversal day, as trending trading range days sometimes do, but the bull trend could not maintain control late in the day.
Bar 17 was a breakout pullback that tested the high of the bar 14 breakout point and led to a strong rally that stopped two ticks above the
measured move from the bottom of bar 13 to the top of bar 11. The measured move hash marks are just to the right of the bar 13, and the distance
from the bottom one to the middle one led to the projection up to the top one.
Bar 18 is another example of a large moving average gap, and the gap was filled within a couple of bars.
There are many other minor gaps as well, like between the low of bar 6 and the high bar 8. Even though that high is at the same price as the low
of bar 6, it is a gap and it is the breakout test of the breakout below bar 6. Similarly, the bar 15 reversal bar high was the breakout point for the
breakout test bar that occurred two bars later.
Note that the three bars with the largest bodies, bar 7, the bar before bar 10, and two bars before bar 18, all led to reversals. Remember, most
breakouts fail to go very far and usually reverse, at least into a pullback. When a large trend bar occurs after a trend has been going for a while, it
usually represents capitulation or exhaustion. For example, that large bull trend bar that formed two bars before bar 18 was in a very strong bull leg.
Shorts were desperate to get out and were worried that the market might go much higher before a pullback would come and let them out at a lower
price. Other traders who were flat were panicking, afraid that they were missing a huge trend into the close, so they were buying at the market, also

afraid that a pullback would not come. This intense buying was caused by traders with tremendous urgency, and after they bought, the only traders
left who were willing to buy were traders who would only buy a pullback. With no one left to buy at these high prices, the market could only go
sideways or down.
There were several micro measuring gaps. For example, the bear trend bar after bar 6 set up one, as did the bull trend bar after bar 10 and the
bull trend bar after bar 15. All of the moves went beyond the measured move targets.
The low of the bar after bar 6 and the high of the bar before bar 7 formed a micro measuring gap, and the bar 7 low was an exact measured
move down. The trend bar in the middle was a breakout to a new low of the day and a strong bear trend bar, closing on its low.
The bar after bar 15 broke out of a small wedge bull flag. The low of the bar after it tested the high of bar 15, which was the breakout point. The
test was exact, and as long as the low of the breakout test does not fall more than a tick or so below the breakout point, the test is a sign of strength.
If the breakout test fell more, it would be a sign that the breakout was not strong and was more likely to fail. The space between the breakout point
and the breakout test is a micro gap. Since it is a breakout gap, it should be used only as an indication of the strength of the breakout and not as a
basis for a measured move. Initial breakouts generally lead to big moves, and traders should not be looking to take profits prematurely. Micro gaps
are often negative gaps, meaning that the low of the breakout test bar is a tick or two below the low of the breakout point bar. Once the breakout
bar closes, an aggressive trader can place a limit order to buy one tick above the high of the prior bar and risk just three ticks or so. The chance of
success might be only about 40 percent, but the reward is many times the risk, so the trader's equation is very favorable.
Figure 6.5
 Gap between the Open of a Bar and the Close of the Prior Bar
If the open of the bar is above or below the close of the prior bar, there is a gap. Sometimes it can be entirely due to low volume (for example, when
there are many dojis), but other times it can signify strength. Seven of the eight gaps in 
Figure 6.5
 were bullish; only on bar 2 was the gap to the
downside. When there are two or more successive gaps in the same direction and the bars have trending bodies, it is a sign of strength. In those
seven bull gaps, a large number of traders placed market orders on the close of the bar and the orders got filled at the offer, indicating that the
market had to go up to find enough sellers to fill those orders. If sellers are only willing to sell higher and bulls are willing to buy the offer, the market
will likely continue up, at least for a while.
Bar 1 set up a micro measuring gap with the high of the bar before it and the low of the bar after it. The move up to the 7:35 a.m. PST swing high
was an exact measured move from the open of the second bar of the day. Measured moves often begin with the open of the first trend bar of a
spike. If the market goes above that target, then use the bottom of the spike to see if the market begins to correct at that target.
The downside gap reversed up on the second bar and it was therefore an exhaustion gap. Day traders would instead just think of it as a failed
gap down opening and an opening reversal up.

Part II
Magnets: Support and Resistance
There are two types of magnets: support and resistance. When a magnet is below the market, it is a support level, which means that it is an area
where bulls will initiate positions and bears will take profits on their shorts. When a magnet is above the market, it is a resistance level, which
means that it is an area where bulls will take profits on their longs and bears will initiate shorts. Support and resistance are magnets that draw the
market toward them. When you become aware of a magnet not too far from the current price, trade only in the direction of the magnet until after it is
reached. At that point, you will have to decide if it looks like the market will reverse, go sideways, or ignore the magnet and keep trending. Magnets
tell you the likely destination, but not the path, and there may be big pullbacks along the way. Also, the market might be in a trading range for
dozens of bars, but within striking distance of a magnet. Although you should be aware of the magnet, there still can be reliable trades in both
directions as the market decides if it will test the magnet and how it will get there.
Traders are constantly looking at support and resistance. The market has inertia and a strong propensity to continue what it has been doing.
When it is trending, most attempts to reverse the trend will fail. For example, if the market is trending down, most support levels will fail to hold or
reverse the market. However, all bull reversals happen at support levels (and all bear reversals happen at resistance levels), so if the market begins
to reverse up, the potential reward is often many times larger than the risk. Even though the probability of success is often only 40 percent, the
trader's equation is still positive and the reversal trade is therefore mathematically sound. Inertia also means that when the market is in a trading
range, most attempts to break out will fail, and the market will repeatedly reverse up from the support created by the bottom of the range, and
reverse down from the resistance at the top. Even though most attempts to reverse a trend will fail, all trend reversals and all pullbacks begin at
support and resistance levels, so knowing where they are can lead traders to take profits and to enter reversal trades at optimal locations.
Most Emini trading is done by computers, and their algorithms are based on logic and numbers. When they buy a falling market or sell a rally,
they are doing so because they calculated that the particular price was a logical location for them to place their trades. If enough algorithms are
using similar prices, the market can reverse, at least for a bar or two, and often enough for a profitable trade. Although some algorithms use
numbers that are not directly based on the Emini price chart (for example, they might use data based on the options markets or other related
markets), unless many programs are coming up with similar numbers, it is unlikely that there will be enough force to change the direction of the
market. When the market reverses, it always does so at support and resistance levels; with practice, an individual trader can usually spot them.
Because some of these reversals lead to profitable trades, and because these levels are sensible areas to take profits, it is useful to know where
possible turning points are.
One of the important reasons to look for magnets is that they are logical areas to take partial or full profits. You should always be faster to take
profits on a trade than you should be to look for an entry in the opposite direction. This means that you need a stronger setup to initiate a trade in
the opposite direction than you need to take profits. If the move toward the magnet is weak and if it is against the direction of a larger trend, you can
also look to initiate a trade in the opposite direction, expecting a reversal. The market will usually overshoot the magnet, at least by a small amount,
and if the move toward the magnet is not a strong trend, the market will usually reverse, at least for a bar or two. If the trend resumes and goes even
further past the magnet and then reverses a second time, this is usually a reliable setup for a trade in the opposite direction, especially if there is a
strong reversal bar.
Any significant type of price action can form support or resistance, and common examples include:
Trend lines.
Trend channel lines.
Any type of moving average on any time frame.
Measured move targets.
Prior swing highs or lows.
Bull entry bar lows and bear entry bar highs.
Bull signal bar highs and bear signal bar lows.
Yesterday's high, low, open, and close.
The high, low, open, or close of any bar, especially if the bar is a large trend bar.
Daily pivots.
Fibonacci retracement levels and projections.
Any type of band.
Support
 and 
resistance
 are terms created by traders to describe any price as having enough of a mathematical edge for a trader to place a
profitable trade. These terms were created by traders to help them spot trades. The high of every bar on every time frame is at some resistance
level, the low of every bar is at support, and the close is where it is and not one tick higher or lower because computers put it there for a reason. The
support and resistance may not be obvious, but since computers control everything and they use logic, everything has to make sense, even if it is
often difficult to understand. Every price on the chart has some mathematical edge, but the edges are usually too small to be tradable except by
high-frequency trading (HFT) programs, many of which are designed to scalp for a penny of profit. By definition, a price is support or resistance
only if it has a directional probability imbalance. For example, if a market falls to a level of support, traders believe that there is about a 60 percent
chance or better that there will be at least a bounce big enough for a scalp, which is every trader's minimal trade. If the chance was only 52 or 53
percent, traders would probably not consider that high enough to use the term and instead would just consider the price as unremarkable. If the
market is in the middle of a trading range, the low of the prior bar is always at least a minimal area of support in the general sense of the word, but
that does not mean the expected bounce is big enough to place a profitable trade. If the expected bounce is only a couple of ticks, it is not support
from a trader's perspective. If the current bar is still forming and it is on its low and is one tick above the low of the prior bar, there might be a 53
percent chance of the market bouncing two ticks before it falls two ticks. However, that is too small an edge and too small a price movement for
traders to place a trade (although a high-frequency program might make that trade), and therefore traders would not call it support. The opposite is
true for resistance.

Support and resistance exist because the market has memory. Once the market returns to a prior price, it will tend to do the same thing that it did
the last time it was there. For example, if the market falls through the bottom of a trading range and then rallies back to the bottom of the range, it
will usually sell off again because that's what it did when it was last at that price level. The traders who failed to exit their longs and rode through the
bear leg will be eager to get a second chance to exit them with a smaller loss, and they will hold until the market rallies back and tests the breakout.
At that point, they will sell out of their longs and this will create selling pressure. Also, the shorts who took profits at the bottom of the sell-off will be
eager to short again on the rally. The combined selling by the bears and the liquidating bulls will create resistance to a further rally and usually drive
the market back down.
When the market falls back to a price and hits it several times and bounces each time, it is finding support at that price level. If the market rallies
to a price level and keeps falling back, the area is resistance. Any area of support or resistance acts as a magnet, drawing the market to the price.
As the market approaches, it enters the magnetic field, and the closer it gets, the stronger the magnetic pull is. This increases the odds of the
market touching the price. That greater magnetic pull in part is generated by the vacuum effect. For example, if the market is having a bear rally
toward a bear trend line but has not yet hit it, the sellers will often step aside and wait for the test. If they believe the market will touch the line, it does
not make sense for them to sell just below the line when they can soon sell higher. The absence of selling creates a buy imbalance and therefore a
vacuum effect that quickly sucks the market up. The result is often a bull trend bar. Then, the bull scalpers sell out of their longs for a profit and the
bears sell to initiate new shorts. Since there was no clear bull reversal at the low, most of the bulls bought for scalps, expecting only a pullback and
then a resumption of the bear trend.
Once the market gets to the target, traders think that the market will now more likely go down far enough to place a profitable trade, and they
appear out of nowhere and short aggressively and relentlessly, driving the market down. The weak bulls who bought at the top of that strong bull
trend bar are stunned that there is no follow-through, but they misunderstood the significance of the bull trend bar. They thought that traders were
suddenly convinced that the market was going to break above the trend line and a bull leg would begin. They were oblivious to the vacuum effect
and did not consider that the bears were just waiting for the market to get a little higher. The strong bull trend bar was due to the bears briefly
stepping aside rather than the bears buying back their shorts. The bulls who kept buying needed to find bears to take the other side of their trades
and they could only find them higher, where the bears thought the market would begin to reverse. The market will continue down to an area of
neutrality and usually beyond to the point that the bulls now have a mathematical edge. This is because the market never knows that it has gone far
enough until it goes too far. Then it trades up and down above the area of neutrality, which becomes tighter and tighter as the bulls and bears are
better able to define it. At some point, both perceive that the value is wrong and the market then breaks out again and begins a new search for
value.
Every countertrend spike should be considered to be a vacuum effect pullback. For example, if there is a sharp bear spike on the 5 minute chart
and then the market suddenly reverses into a bull leg, there was an area of support at the low, whether or not you saw it in advance. The bulls
stepped aside until the market reached a level where they believed that value was considerable, and the opportunity to buy at this great price would
be brief. They came in and bought aggressively. The smart bears were aware of that magnet, and they used it as an opportunity to take profits on
their shorts. The result was a market bottom on the 5 minute chart. That bottom, like all bottoms, occurred at some higher time frame support level,
like a bull trend line, a moving average, or a bear trend channel line at the bottom of a large bull flag. It is important to remember that if the 5 minute
reversal was strong, you would buy based on that reversal, regardless of whether you saw support there on the daily or 60 minute chart. Also, you
would not buy at that low, even if you saw the higher time frame support, unless there was evidence on the 5 minute chart that it was forming a
bottom. This means that you do not need to be looking at lots of different charts in search of that support level, because the reversal on the 5 minute
chart tells you that it is there. If you are able to follow multiple time frames, you will see support and resistance levels before the market reaches
them, and this can alert you to look for a setup on the 5 minute chart when the market reaches the magnet. However, if you simply follow the 5
minute chart carefully, it will tell you all that you need to know.
In general, if the market tests an area of support four or five times, the likelihood of breaking through that support increases and, at some point,
the breakout becomes more likely than not. If the buyers who lifted the market at this level fail repeatedly to do so again, they will give up at some
point and be overwhelmed by sellers. For example, if the market is resting above a flat moving average, traders will buy every touch of the moving
average, expecting a rally. If instead the market continues sideways and they don't even get enough of a rally to allow for a profitable scalp, at some
point they will sell their longs, thereby creating selling pressure. They will also stop buying touches of the moving average. This absence of buying
will increase the probability that the market will fall through the moving average. The bulls have decided that the moving average was not enough of
a discount for them to buy aggressively, and they will do so only on a further discount. If it does not find those buyers within 10 to 20 bars after falling
below the moving average, the market will usually either trend down or continue in a trading range, but now below the moving average. Traders will
begin shorting rallies to the moving average, which will increase the chances that the market will begin to form lower highs and that the moving
average will start to trend down. Once the market falls through support, it usually becomes resistance; and once the market breaks above
resistance, it usually becomes support.
This can also happen with a trend line or a trend channel line. For example, if a bull market pulls back to a trend line four or more times and it
does not rally far above the trend line, at some point the bulls will stop buying tests of the trend line and they will begin to sell their longs, creating
selling pressure. This is added to the selling of the bears, and since the bulls have stopped buying, the market will fall through the trend line.
Sometimes, however, the market will instead suddenly accelerate to the upside and the bears will stop shorting every small bounce and instead will
buy back their shorts, driving the market higher.
Institutional trading is done by discretionary traders and computers, and computer program trading has become increasingly important.
Institutions base their trading on fundamental or technical information, or a combination of both, and both types of trading are done by traders and
by computers. In general, most of the discretionary traders base their decisions primarily on fundamental information, and most of the computer
trades are based on technical data. Since the majority of the volume is now traded by HFT firms, and most of the trades are based on price action
and other technical data, most of the program trading is technically based. In the late twentieth century, a single institution running a large program
could move the market, and the program would create a micro channel, which traders saw as a sign that a program was running. Now, most days
have a dozen or so micro channels in the Emini, and many have over 100,000 contracts traded. With the Emini currently around 1200, that
corresponds to $6 billion, and is larger than a single institution would trade for a single small trade. This means that a single institution cannot move
the market very far or for very long, and that all movement on the chart is caused by many institutions trading in the same direction at the same time.
Also, HFT computers analyze every tick and are constantly placing trades all day long. When they detect a program, many will scalp in the direction
of the program, and they will often account for most of the volume while the micro channel (program) is progressing.
The institutions that are trading largely on technical information cannot move the market in one direction forever because at some point the
market will appear as offering value to the institutions trading on fundamentals. If the technical institutions run the price up too high, fundamental

institutions and other technical institutions will see the market as being at a great price to sell out of longs and to initiate shorts, and they will
overwhelm the bullish technical trading and drive the market down. When the technical trading creates a bear trend, the market at some point will
be clearly cheap in the eyes of fundamental and other technical institutions. The buyers will come in and overwhelm the technical institutions
responsible for the selloff and reverse the market up.
Trend reversals on all time frames always happen at support and resistance levels, because technical traders and programs look for them as
areas where they should stop pressing their bets and begin to take profits, and many will also begin to trade in the opposite direction. Since they
are all based on mathematics, computer algorithms, which generate 70 percent of all trading volume and 80 percent of institutional volume, know
where they are. Also, institutional fundamental traders pay attention to obvious technical factors. They see major support and resistance on the
chart as areas of value and will enter trades in the opposite direction when the market gets there. The programs that trade on value will usually find
it around the same areas, because there is almost always significant value by any measure around major support and resistance. Most of the
programs make decisions based on price, and there are no secrets. When there is an important price, they all see it, no matter what logic they use.
The fundamental traders (people and machines) wait for value and commit heavily when they detect it. They want to buy when they think that the
market is cheap and sell when they believe it is expensive. For example, if the market is falling, but it's getting to a price level where the institutions
feel like it is getting cheap, they will appear out of nowhere and buy aggressively. This is seen most dramatically and often during opening reversals
(the reversals can be up or down and are discussed in the section on trading the open in book 3). The bears will buy back their shorts to take profits
and the bulls will buy to establish new longs. No one is good at knowing when the market has gone far enough, but most experienced traders and
programs are usually fairly confident in their ability to know when it has gone too far.
Because the institutions are waiting to buy until the market has become clearly oversold, there is an absence of buyers in the area above a
possible bottom, and the market is able to accelerate down to the area where they are confident that it is cheap. Some institutions rely on programs
to determine when to buy and others are discretionary. Once enough of them buy, the market will usually turn up for at least a couple of legs and
about 10 or more bars on whatever time frame chart where this is happening. While it is falling, institutions continue to short all the way down until
they determine that it has reached a likely target and it is unlikely to fall any further, at which point they take profits. The more oversold the market
becomes, the more of the volume is technically based, because fundamental traders and programs will not continue to short when they think that the
market is cheap and should soon be bought. The relative absence of buyers as the market gets close to a major support level often leads to an
acceleration of the selling into the support, usually resulting in a sell vacuum that sucks the market below the support in a climactic selloff, at which
point the market reverses up sharply. Most support levels will not stop a bear trend (and most resistance levels will not stop a bull trend), but when
the market finally reverses up, it will be at an obvious major support level, like a long term trend line. The bottom of the selloff and the reversal up is
usually on very heavy volume. As the market is falling, it has many rallies up to resistance levels and selloffs down to support levels along the way,
and each reversal takes place when enough institutions determine that it has gone too far and is offering value for a trade in the opposite direction.
When enough institutions act around the same level, a major reversal takes place.
There are fundamental and technical ways to determine support (and resistance). For example, it can be estimated with calculations, like what
the S&P 500 price earnings multiple should theoretically be, but these calculations are never sufficiently precise for enough institutions to agree.
However, traditional areas of support and resistance are easier to see and therefore more likely to be noticed by many institutions, and they more
clearly define where the market should reverse. In the crashes of both 1987 and 2008–2009, the market collapsed down to slightly below the
monthly trend line and then reversed up, creating a major bottom. The market will continue up, with many tests down, until it has gone too far, which
is always at a significant resistance level. Only then can the institutions be confident that there is clear value in selling out of longs and selling into
shorts. The process then reverses down.
The fundamentals (the value in buying or selling) determine the overall direction, but the technicals determine the actual turning points. The
market is always probing for value, which is an excess, and is always at support and resistance levels. Reports and news items at any time can
alter the fundamentals (the perception of value) enough to make the market trend up or down for minutes to several days. Major reversals lasting for
months are based on fundamentals and begin and end at support and resistance levels. This is true of every market and every time frame.
It is important to realize that the news will report the fundamentals as still bullish after the market has begun to turn down from a major top, and still
bearish after it has turned up from a major bottom. Just because the news still sees the market as bullish or bearish does not mean that the
institutions do. Trade the charts and not the news. Price is truth and the market always leads the news. In fact, the news is always the most bullish at
market tops and most bearish at market bottoms. The reporters get caught up in the euphoria or despair and search for pundits who will explain
why the trend is so strong and will continue much longer. They will ignore the smartest traders, and probably do not even know who they are. Those
traders are interested in making money, not news, and will not seek out the reporters. When a reporter takes a cab to work and the driver tells him
that he just sold all of his stocks and mortgaged his house so that he could buy gold, the reporter gets excited and can't wait to find a bullish pundit
to put on the air to confirm the reporter's profound insight in the gold bull market. “Just think, the market is so strong that even my cabbie is buying
gold! Everyone will therefore sell all of their other assets and buy more, and the market will have to race higher for many more months!” To me,
when even the weakest traders finally enter the market, there is no one left to buy. The market needs a greater fool who is willing to buy higher so
that you can sell out with a profit. When there is no one left, the market can only go one way, and it is the opposite of what the news is telling you. It is
difficult to resist the endless parade of persuasive professorial pundits on television who are giving erudite arguments about how gold cannot go
down and in fact will double again over the next year. However, you have to realize that they are there for their own self-aggrandizement and for
entertainment. The network needs the entertainment to attract viewers and advertising dollars. If you want to know what the institutions are really
doing, just look at the charts. The institutions are too big to hide and if you understand how to read charts, you will see what they are doing and
where the market is heading, and it is usually unrelated to anything that you see on television.
Most major tops do not come from climaxes made of huge bars and volume, which are more common at major bottoms. More often, a top comes
from a trading range, like a double top or a head and shoulders top, followed by a breakout in the form of a bear spike. However, tops can be
climactic, and bottoms can be trading ranges.
The chapters on trading ranges (further on) and channels (in book 1) describe how to use support and resistance to place trades. For example,
traders will buy near the bottom of a channel or other type of trading range and short near the top, and then take profits and reverse on the test of
the other side of the channel or trading range.
In a strong trend, the market extends beyond most magnets. For example, in a bull trend, beginning traders will discover that the rally continues
up far beyond every measured move target and trend channel line that they draw. These beginners will mistakenly be shorting at every perceived
resistance level, finding their losses growing all day long. They incorrectly keep shorting tops that look great but are bad, and refuse to buy
pullbacks that look bad but are great. However, once there finally is a pullback or a reversal, it will always occur at a resistance level. Even in strong
trends, measured move targets often work precisely to the tick. Obviously, this is in part because computers can calculate them accurately.

Computers control the market and their profit taking has to be at some calculated level, which is always at some magnet. Additionally, if a trade is
minimally “good,” meaning that the strategy is profitable, the reward has to be at least as large as the risk to create a positive trader's equation.
This usually results in some profit taking once the reward reaches the size of the risk, because this is the minimum level that the market has to
reach to make the strategy profitable. Minor swings often end precisely at measured move projections, and many strong trends end exactly at, or
within a tick, of a significant measured move target, as the price gets vacuumed to the magnet.
Figure PII.1
 Dow Jones Industrial Average Monthly Chart
The monthly chart of the Dow Jones Industrial Average (
Figure PII.1
) shows several types of support and resistance (all are magnets).
Trend lines and trend channel lines are important support and resistance areas. The bar 18 bottom of the 2009 crash reversed up from below a
monthly trend line drawn from the 1987 crash low to the October 1990 pullback. It also was at the trend channel line created by bars 8 and 12
(creating a dueling lines pattern, discussed in a later section). All major reversals up from bear markets occur at support and all tops occur at
resistance, but most support and resistance do not stop trends. However, if there is a strong reversal pattern and it forms at a support or resistance
level, institutions will take profits and many will even enter in the other direction. Market bottoms more often come from sell climaxes, like the
crashes of 1987 and 2009. Market tops more often come from trading ranges, like around bars 9 and 15.
The bar 15 high was close to a measured move up based on the height of the bar 12 to bar 13 bull spike.
The moving average repeatedly acted as support, like at bars 3, 4, 6, 8, 14, and 20, and resistance, like at bars 11 and 17.
Trading ranges act as support and resistance. The breakout below the bar 9 trading range was resistance to the bar 11 rally, and the bar 15
trading range was resistance to the bar 17 rally. Once the market rallied up to bar 15, bar 16 found support at the top of the bar 9 trading range.
Swing highs and lows act as support and resistance. Bar 12 found support at the bar 8 low and formed a double bottom. Bar 13 formed a double
top with bar 11, but the market went sideways and soon broke above that resistance.
Figure PII.2
 Support Can Become Resistance, and Resistance Can Become Support
Support became resistance and resistance became support in the 5 minute Emini chart shown in 
Figure PII.2
. This was true for both the moving
average and for trend lines.
Bars 1, 2, 5, 6, 17, 18, 19, and 20 found sellers on rallies to the moving average, and bars 7, 8, 13, 15, and 16 found buyers on minor pullbacks
to the moving average.
Bars 12, 13, 15, and 16 were repeated tests of the moving average, and the buyers were not getting rewarded and soon stopped buying the
pullbacks. The market then fell below the moving average and the bears began to short small rallies up to the moving average, creating a series of
lower highs and lows.
The bull trend line was a best fit line drawn with the objective of having as many bars as possible test it. Buyers were clearly buying in the area of
the trend line, and it was tested more than a dozen times without a sharp rally away from the trend line. This lack of acceleration made the bulls
more cautious over time, and eventually they became unwilling to buy in the area of the trend line. Once the market fell below the trend line, bulls
became even more hesitant to buy, and began to sell out of their longs, and bears became more aggressive. Lower highs and lows formed and
traders began to draw bear trend lines where they shorted rallies.
Incidentally, any upward-sloping channel should be thought of as a bear flag, even if it is part of a bull market, because eventually there will be a
break below the trend line and the market will behave as if the channel was a bear flag for trading purposes. Likewise, any downward-sloping

channel should be thought of as a bull flag and its eventual breakout should be traded as if a bull leg is underway.

Chapter 7
Measured Moves Based on the Size of the First Leg (the Spike)
A measured move is a swing that is equal in size to a prior swing in the same direction. You estimate how far the market will go on its second
attempt based on how far it went on its first. Why do measured moves work? If you are looking for a measured move, then you believe that you
know the always-in direction, which means that you are probably at least 60 percent certain that the move will occur. The measured move is usually
based on the height of a spike or trading range, and the initial protective stop is usually beyond the beginning of the first move. For example, if there
is a strong buy spike, then the initial protective stop is one tick below the low of the spike. If the spike is huge, traders will rarely risk that much, and
will usually still have a profitable trade, but the theoretical stop is still below the spike. Also, the probability is often more than 60 percent. If the spike
is about four points tall, then the risk is about four points. Since you believe that the measured move will occur and that the strategy of buying at the
top of the spike is sound, then you are risking four points on a 60 percent bet. Mathematics dictates that your belief (that the strategy will be
profitable when the probability is 60 percent) will be true only if the reward is at least as big as the risk. This is discussed in Chapter 25 about the
mathematics of trading. This means that for the strategy to work, you need to have a 60 percent chance of making at least four points, which is the
measured move target. In other words, the only way that the strategy works is if the measured move target is hit about 60 percent of the time. Since
trading a trend is the most reliable form of trading, if there ever are strategies that work, then this has to be one. Is this the reason why measured
moves work? No one knows for sure, but it is a plausible explanation, and the best that I have imagined.
Most measured moves are based either on spikes or on trading ranges. When one is based on a spike, it usually leads to a trading range; and
when it is based on a trading range, it usually leads to a spike. For example, if there is a double top, which is a type of trading range, traders will
often take partial profits once the breakout up or down reaches a measured move. Traders look for a breakout, which is a spike, and they usually
expect some profit taking once the spike has reached the measured move area. If the breakout was with a strong spike and there is no significant
pause at the measured move target, the spike itself often leads to a measured move based on the height of the spike. Once the market gets there,
traders will often begin to take profits and the result will usually be a trading range.
Once there is a pullback from a strong move, there is usually a second leg in the same direction, and it is often approximately the same size as
the first leg. This concept is the basis for a few reliable techniques to project a possible target for the end of that second leg. That measured move
area is a reasonable place to take profits on your trend position, and then you can wait for another pullback to reestablish your position. If there is a
strong reversal setup, you can also consider a countertrend trade.
When a market makes a sharp move and then has a pullback, it will likely have a second leg and the second leg is frequently approximately the
same size as the first. This is a leg 1 = leg 2 move, but it is also called an ABC move or an AB = CD. This alphabetical terminology is confusing,
and it is simpler to just refer to the two moves as leg 1 and leg 2, and the pullback after leg 1 as simply the pullback. The confusion with the
alphabetical labeling is that in the AB = CD pattern, the B, C, and D correspond to the A, B, and C of the ABC move. The B leg of an ABC is the
pullback and it creates a thick area on a Market Profile (CME Group's graph of price and time information). The middle of any thick area often
leads to a measured move, and here the target is the same as the one based on AB = CD. For example, for the AB = CD in a bull trend, if you start
at point A and add the length of the AB leg (which is B – A), then add that to C, you get C + (B – A). For the thick area, you start at A and then add
the length of the AB leg (which is B – A), then move back down to one-half of the thick area (so subtract half of the BC leg), and then add the height
of B minus one-half of the BC thick area to get the measured move up from the middle of the BC thick area. Both equations equal C + (B – A) and
therefore give the same measured move projection. This is way too complicated, and it is of minor importance because you should not be fading
the move with a limit order solely based on Fibonacci extensions or measured moves or any other magnet. They just provide a guide to keep you
trading with the trend until they are approached, and at that point you can consider countertrend setups as well.
In addition to clear pullback entries that set up measured moves, sometimes there is a more subtle situation that is equally valid. When a market
has a strong trend move and then a fairly strong pullback leg, and then a trading range, traders can use the approximate middle of the range to
project where the second leg of the pullback might reach. As the trading range unfolds, keep adjusting the line to where you estimate the midpoint
is, and that will usually be around the midpoint of the pullback once the move has finally completed its second leg. This just serves as a guide to
where you should be anticipating the two-legged pullback to end and for the market to set up a trade for a resumption of the trend. You can also
simply use a leg 1 = leg 2 measurement. For example, in a two-legged bull flag, take the length of the first leg down and subtract that height from the
top of the pullback to find a reasonable location for where the second leg down of the pullback might end.
There is a variation of this in spike and channel trends where the height of the channel is often about the same as the height of the spike. This is
especially true when the spike is strong, like one with exceptionally large trend bars or several strong trend bars with little overlap and small tails.
When there is a strong spike, the market often makes a measured move in either direction, but usually in the with-trend direction based on some
combination of the open, close, high, or low of the first and last bars of the spike. For example, if there is a huge bull spike, take the number of
points from the open of the first bar of the spike to the close of the final bar of the spike and add that to the close of that final bar of the spike. The
channel that follows usually will find some resistance in that area and the market will often then correct down to the bottom of the channel. This
measured move target is an area where you can take profits on your long position. Sometimes the market might make a measured move from the
low of the first bar of the spike to the close or high of the final bar of the spike, or from the open of the first bar to the high of the final bar, so it is
prudent to look at all the possibilities. Less often, the market will not form much of a channel up and will reverse to below the bottom of the spike,
and then make a measured move down.
It is important to remember that most of the time the market is in some kind of trading range and therefore the directional probability of an
equidistant move is 50 percent. This means that the market is as likely to go up X number of points as it is to go down that same number of points.
When there is a trend, the odds are better in the trend direction. When there is a strong spike, the odds of follow-through might be 60 percent and
sometimes even 70 percent if the overall chart pattern is consistent with a strong trend move. Also, when the market is at the bottom of a trading
range, the probability favors a move up; and when it is at the top of the range, the probability favors a move down. This is because of market inertia,
which means that the market tends to continue what is has been doing. If it is trending, the odds favor more trending, and if it is in a trading range,
the odds favor that breakout attempts will fail. In fact, about 80 percent of trend reversal attempts fail, and that is why you should wait for them to
evolve into pullbacks and then enter in the direction of the trend. Also, 80 percent of attempts to break out of a trading range fail, and it makes far

more mathematical sense to fade the tops and bottoms of the trading range than it does to buy large bull trend bars near the top and short large
bear trend bars near the bottom.
Here is an example of a measured move that uses several assumptions. There was a strong bull spike made of three bull trend bars that broke
out of a trading range. The next bar was a small doji bar, and this pause meant that the spike ended on the prior bar, which was the last of the
consecutive bull trend bars. The breakout was strong because there was very little overlap between the bars, with the open of each bar at or above
the close of the prior bar. The biggest tail on any bar was only two ticks, and a couple of bars had no tail on the bottom. The first bar was three and
a half points (14 ticks) tall, the second bar was 10 ticks tall, the third bar was eight ticks tall, and the fourth bar had a one-tick bull body but a three-
tick tail on the bottom and a two-tick tail on the top. That doji was the first bar that lacked momentum and it therefore told you that the spike had
ended on the previous bar. The open of the first bar was eight points below the close of the third and final bull trend bar in the spike, so the spike
should be thought of as being eight points tall, at a minimum. You could use the low of the first bar to the high of the third bar or even the high of the
doji fourth bar, but it is more conservative to use the smaller figure for your initial projection. If the second leg surpasses this target, then look at
other targets.
As that spike was forming, if you bought at any point, your stop on your trade might have to be below the bottom of the spike. For argument's
sake, assume that you would risk to one tick below the open of the first bar of the spike. If you bought at the market at the highest tick when the
spike was three points tall, then you would be risking about three points to make at least three points. At that moment, you believed that the market
would have a measured move up equal to the height of the spike, which was three points tall. You knew where your stop was, and you didn't yet
know where the top of the spike would be, but you knew that it would be at least as high as where you bought. Since you believed that the market
was trending, you felt that the odds were better than 50–50 that the market would go up three points before it fell and hit that stop three points
below.
After the spike continued to grow to seven points, you changed your assessment. You now believed that since the market was still trending, the
odds were at least 50–50 that the market would go up seven more points before it fell seven points. At the moment, you already had four points of
open profit on a trade where you were hoping for three while you risked three. If you wanted, you could have bought more at the high tick of the
spike, which was still forming, and then your risk would have been seven points (maybe a few ticks more since you would probably have wanted to
risk to one tick below the bottom of the first bar of the spike), and your profit target would be seven points higher. However, on your initial long, you
were still risking three points but now had better than a 50 percent chance of making a total of 11 points (the four from your entry to the current top of
the spike, and then seven more).
Once that fourth bar formed, which was a doji, you then knew that the spike up had ended at the close of the prior bar, eight points above the
open of the first bar of the spike. At that point, you would have concluded that the market had more than a 50 percent chance of going up eight more
points above the close of the spike before falling eight points to below the open or bottom of the spike (maybe a tick or two more than eight points
on the downside, since the safest stop was beyond the start of the spike). Since the spike was so strong, the probability was likely more than 60
percent.
As soon as the spike ended, two-sided trading began, and at that point uncertainty increased. The market corrected sideways to down and then
the channel up began. Although the market might have made a leg 1 = leg 2 move up from the bottom of this pullback, where the spike was leg 1
and the channel was leg 2, when a spike is very strong, the more reliable target is the one based on the open of the first bar of the spike to the
close of the final bar of the spike. As the market rallies, the probability of higher prices slowly erodes. When the bull channel reached about half of
the distance to the measured move target, the directional probability of an equidistant move fell back to around 50 to 55 percent and uncertainty
once again was very high. Remember, a bull channel is usually followed by a move back down to the bottom of the channel and then at least a
bounce, so the bull channel was actually the first leg of a trading range that had not yet formed. Once the market made it to the measured move
target area, it was likely the high end of that incipient range, and the odds favored a move down. This is true of all trading ranges. This is an
excellent area to take profits on your longs, and because so many traders take profits in the area of the measured move, the market begins to pull
back. Most traders will not look to buy aggressively again until the market retraces to around the bottom of the channel, where a double bottom
usually forms. This area is also a magnet. The bulls begin to buy again and the bears who shorted at the top of the channel will take profits. Since
the market is now around the bottom of the developing trading range, the directional probability slightly favors the bulls.
Once the market enters the trading range, the directional probability of an equidistant move is again 50–50 whenever the market is near the
middle of that range. If your risk is X points, you have a 50 percent chance of making X points before your stop is hit, and a 50 percent chance of
losing X points before your profit target is reached. This is a by-product of the markets being relatively efficient. Most of the time, they are efficient
and the odds of making X points before losing X points are close to 50–50. The best trading occurs when the odds are better than 50–50, but this
often occurs during spikes, which are emotional, fast moving, and difficult to enter. Traders understand this and that is why the spike grows so
quickly without any pullbacks. Traders keep adding to their positions all the way up because they know that until the spike ends, the odds of making
as much as they are risking are better than 50–50, and the odds fall to about 50–50 only once the channel is well underway. When that spike is
forming, they do not know if there will be a pullback before the market goes higher, but they are confident that it will go higher in the near term.
Rather than waiting for a pullback that may never come and therefore missing out on a strong trade, they buy at the market or on one- to four-tick
pullbacks and risk to around the bottom of the spike. This urgency is behind the formation of spikes, and the increased risk keeps many traders
away. Most beginners are unwilling to risk the three to seven points. Instead, they should simply buy a small position, maybe one-quarter of their
normal size, and take the risk, because that is what the institutions are doing. They understand the math and therefore are not afraid to take the
trade.
This move toward a 50–50 market is the basis of all measured move trades. The odds are out of balance, and the rally to the measured move is
an attempt to restore uncertainty. The market invariably overshoots and has to backtrack to home in on a 50–50 market. The measured move area
is an overshoot of the odds, and they then briefly favor the bears. Once the market retraces to the bottom of the channel, the odds again overshoot,
but this time in favor of the bulls. When the market bounces back up toward the middle of the developing trading range, the odds are once again
around 50–50 and the market is in balance.
Figure 7.1
 Leg 1 = Leg 2

Exxon Mobil (XOM) had a strong first leg up from bar A to bar B on the daily chart shown in 
Figure 7.1
, so traders bought the bar C higher low for a
possible leg 1 = leg 2 rally. Bar D slightly undershot the target (the top of the dashed line). Once in the area of the target, many traders saw what
they thought might be two-legged bear rally after the sell-off to bar A. If you were to use ABC labeling, bar B is point A, bar C is point B, and bar D
is point C, and because of this confusion, it is better to simply refer to the move up to bar B as leg 1, the sell-off down to C as the pullback, and the
rally up to D as leg 2.
Once there was a higher low at bar E and the rally broke above bar D, a trader could look at AD as a first leg that contains two smaller legs (AB
and CD), and then stay long until there was a measured move up (AD = EF, and the target is the top of the solid line).
Fibonacci traders also look to other extensions (138 percent, 150 percent, 162 percent, etc.) as valid areas in which to look for reversals, but this
is too complicated and approximate. Once the market has clearly two-sided behavior, it is just as reliable to look to buy low and sell high whenever
there is a strong signal.
Figure 7.2
 Variant of Leg 1 = Leg 2
Sometimes a leg 1 = leg 2 measured move has a leg 1 that is not the absolute low of the initial sell-off. The correction up from the first leg down is
usually a two-legged move or a wedge bear flag, but the pullback from either often falls below the beginning of the corrective leg, as it did in 
Figure
7.2
 at bar 6. By the time bar 9 formed what appeared to be the end of the pullback from the first leg down, astute traders were open to the
possibility that the correction up to bar 9 began at bar 4 and not bar 6, and therefore thought that the second leg down might be equal to the bar 1 to
bar 4 first leg down instead of the bar 1 to bar 6 first leg down. The bottom of bar 12 was a perfect leg 1 = leg 2 measured move to the tick based
on the bar 4 end of the first leg. If the market instead continued down, then traders would have watched to see what happened once it fell to the area
of the leg 1 = leg 2 based on a leg 1 ending at bar 6.
Why did it make sense to consider the possibility that leg 1 ended at bar 4? Traders were looking for a two-legged pullback up before the
second leg down began, and the move up from bar 6 to bar 9 was in a channel and therefore likely just one leg. Elliott Wave traders know that
upward corrections can include a pullback that goes below the bottom of the initial move down, and they call this sideways type of correction a flat.
The flat here would be the move up to bar 5, the move down to bar 6, and the move up to bar 9. Also, the move up to bar 5 was a reasonably strong
bull spike and therefore it was a possible start of the correction. The pullback to bar 6 from that spike up was a lower low pullback, and lower low
pullbacks are common. Therefore, as the correction was unfolding, traders were not troubled by this interpretation.
Bars 5 and 8 formed a potential double top bear flag, but the breakout to bar 9 eliminated that possibility. However, whenever there is a breakout
above a double top, traders watch to see if it fails. If so, this effectively is a wedge top. The three pushes up are the bar 5 and bar 8 double top
followed by the failed breakout to bar 9.
Once the market spiked down to bar 10 after the failed breakout, traders believed that the second leg down from the bar 1 high had begun.
There were some other noteworthy features on this chart. Bar 12 was an expanding triangle bottom with bars 4, 6, and 12 being the three pushes
down.
The first day opened with a sharp rally up to bar 3 and then a sharp sell-off down to bar 6 that extended about as far below the open as bar 3 did
above it. Even though the range was small, it was about average for the recent days (the end of December often has small days). Whenever a day
has an average range and the open is in the middle of the range, the market often tries to close around the open. Traders know this, and that is why
the tight trading range that followed bar 7 had a good chance of having a breakout that tested the open of the day. The day closed at one tick above
the open, and this formed an almost perfect doji candle on the daily chart.

The rally to bar 9 was a breakout test of the sell-off below bar 3. The sell-off to bar 23 was a breakout test of the rally above bar 13, and it missed
the breakeven stops by one tick. It was also an exact test of the open of the day.
Figure 7.3
 Measured Move Based on Middle of Trading Range
In 
Figure 7.3
, Research in Motion (RIMM) had a sharp move up to bar 2 after an opening reversal from below yesterday's low, and then a pullback
to bar 3. Since a second leg up was likely after a strong three-bar bull spike, if traders were interested in knowing where it might end, they could
keep adjusting line B to be in the middle of the developing range. Once the market breaks out, they could make a parallel and drag it equidistantly
up from line A for a measured move, where they could expect to take profits. Even though the market was in a trading range, there was a slight bias
toward an upside breakout because the move before the trading range was up and most of the bars in the trading range were bull trend bars,
representing buying pressure.
Until the market broke out of the triangle by going above bar 6, traders could have traded in both directions, as they can in any trading range.
Since a trading range is an area where both the bulls and the bears have agreed that there is value, most probes away from the middle fail and the
market will get drawn back into the range. Eventually, the market will break away from the magnetic field and find value at a different price.
Figure 7.4
 Measured Move Based on Bear Spike
When there is a news release that creates a spike, the spike often leads to a measured move where traders can look to take profits. In 
Figure 7.4
,
at bar 1 the market was surprised by an announcement about the president proposing new banking regulations, and this led to two large bear trend
bars. Once there is a pause bar like a doji, a bar with a large tail on the bottom, or a bar with a bull body, then you know that the spike had ended on
the prior bar. Here, the spike lasted two bars and traders looked for a measured move down from the close of the final bar of the spike. They
expected it to be about the same number of ticks as there were from the open of the first bar of the spike down to the close of the final bar of the
spike. Sometimes the high of the first bar to the low of the final bar of the spike becomes the height of the measured move, but traders will always
look at the nearest possibility first and look for bigger moves only if the first target failed to contain the market. This target is a good place to take
your final profit on a swing short and then look for a pullback to short again. If there is a strong reversal signal at that test area, a countertrend trade
can be considered.
Figure 7.5
 A Spike Can Lead to a Measured Move Up or Down

A spike can be followed by a measured move in either direction. In 
Figure 7.5
, there was a strong six-bar rally on the open, but the market failed at
the moving average on this large gap down day and ultimately reached a measured move to the downside. The move was based on the open of
the first bar of the spike to the close of the final bar of the spike. Although most spikes end as soon as there is any pause bar, if the move continues
up after the pause, you should consider the possibility that it will function like a spike, which it probably is on a higher time frame chart.

Chapter 8
Measured Moves Based on Gaps and Trading Ranges
Gaps are common on daily charts where the low of one bar is above the high of the prior bar or the high of a bar is below the low of the prior bar. If
there is conviction about the direction of the market, the middle of the gap often becomes the middle of the trend. As the market gets near the
measured move target, traders will look carefully at the exact target and often take partial or total profits in that area, and some traders will begin to
take positions in the opposite direction. This often leads to a pause, a pullback, or even a reversal.
When a breakout occurs on an intraday chart, only rarely will this kind of gap appear. However, there is often something just as reliable, which is
a gap between the breakout point and the first pause or pullback. For example, if the market breaks out above a swing high and the breakout bar is
a relatively large bull trend bar and the low of the next bar is above the breakout point, then there is a gap between that low and the breakout point
and that often becomes a measuring gap. If the bar after the breakout is also a large bull trend bar, then wait for the first small bull trend bar, bear
trend bar, or doji bar. Its low is then the top of the gap. If the breakout point or the breakout pullback is unclear, the market will often just use the
middle of the breakout bar as the middle of the gap. In this case, the measured move is based on the start of the rally to the middle of the breakout
bar. The market would then be expected to rally for about the same number of ticks above that level.
If the market pulls back within a few bars of breaking out and the low of the pullback is in the gap, then the gap is now smaller but its midpoint still
can be used to find a measured move target. If the market pulls back further, even to a little below the gap, the midpoint between the breakout point
and that pullback can still be used for the projection. Since the difference between the breakout pullback and the breakout point is then a negative
number, I call this a negative gap. Measured move projections are less reliable when they are based on a negative gap.
On a Market Profile, these intraday measuring gaps where the market moves quickly are thin areas between two distributions, and represent
prices where the market is one-sided. The distributions are “fat” areas and are simply trading ranges where there is two-sided trading taking place.
A trading range is an area of agreement on price, and its middle is the middle of what bulls and bears think is fair. A gap is also an area of
agreement. It is an area where the bulls and bears agree that no trading should take place, and its middle is the midpoint of that area. In both
cases, on a simplistic level, if those prices are a midpoint of agreement between bulls and bears, then they are a rough guide to the midpoint of the
leg that contains them. Once they form, swing part or all of your with-trend entries. As the target is approached, consider countertrend entries if
there is a good setup. Most traders use the height of the prior trading range for measuring, which is fine because the exact distance is only
approximate no matter how you do it (unless you are a Fibonacci or Elliott Wave trader and have the uncanny ability to convince yourself that the
market almost always creates perfect patterns, despite the overwhelming evidence to the contrary). The key is to trade only with the trend, but once
the market is in the area of the measured move, you can begin to look for countertrend entries. However, the best countertrend trades only follow an
earlier countertrend move that was strong enough to break the trend line.
If the market pauses after the measured move is reached, the two strong trend legs might be simply the end of a higher time frame correction,
and if that appears to be the case, then swing part of any countertrend entry. Two legs often complete a move, and the move is usually followed by
at least a protracted countertrend move that has at least two legs, and it sometimes becomes a new, opposite trend. The countertrend move will
often test all the way back to the breakout point.
Sometimes the projections are exact to the tick, but most of the time the market undershoots or overshoots the target. This approach is only a
guideline to keep you trading on the correct side of the market.
Figure 8.1
 Measuring Gap
The middle of a gap often leads to a measured move. In 
Figure 8.1
, the Emini had a gap up at bar 3, above the bar 2 high of the previous day, and
the middle of that gap was a possible middle of the move up. Traders measured from the bar 1 bottom of the rally to the middle of the gap and then
projected that same number of points upward. Bar 4 came within a couple of ticks of the projection, but many traders believe that a target in the
Emini has not been adequately tested unless the market comes to within one tick of it. This gave traders confidence to buy the sharp sell-off on the
open of the next day down to bar 5. The high of the day was two ticks above the measured move projection. The market sold off on the next day
down to bar 7 but rallied again to test just below the target. On the following day, the bulls gave up and there was a large gap down and then a sell-
off. There were certainly news announcements that the television pundits used to explain all of the moves, but the reality was that the moves were
based on math. The news was just the excuse for the market to do what it was already going to do.
Figure 8.2
 Measuring Gaps

Figure 8.2
 shows two days that have measured moves based on thin areas. A thin area is a breakout area where there is very little overlap of the
bars.
The market had a sharp move up from bar 3 on the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) report at 11:15 a.m. PST, and broke above the
bar 2 high of the day. The flag at bar 4 tested the breakout with a two-legged sideways correction, and there was a small negative gap between the
top of bar 2 and the bottom of the bar 4 breakout test. If you subtract the high of the bar 2 breakout point from the low of the bar 4 pullback, you get a
negative number for the height of the gap. Although the middle of a negative gap sometimes yields a perfect measured move, more commonly the
end of the measured move will be equal to the top of the breakout point, here the bar 2 high, minus the bottom of the initial trading range, here the
bar 1 low. You could also use the low of bar 3 to calculate the measured move, but it is always better to look at the nearest target first and to
consider further targets only if the market trades through the lower ones. The market reached the line C target from the line A (bar 1) to line B
measured move exactly on the last bar of the day, and poked above the line D target using the bar 3 to line B projection on the open of the next day.
Even though bar 1 is higher than bar 3, it can still be considered the bottom of the measured move by thinking of the sell-off to bar 3 as just an
overshoot of the bar 1 actual low of the leg.
On the second day, there was a gap below bar 7 and above bar 8, and the line F target was exceeded just before the close.
Incidentally, there was also a double top bear flag at bars 8 and 9.
Figure 8.3
 Profit Taking at Measured Move Targets
Apple (AAPL) was in a strong bull trend on the monthly chart shown in 
Figure 8.3
. Whenever there is a trend, traders look for logical levels where
they can take partial or full profits. They usually turn to measured moves. Bar 13 was just above the measured move based on the strong rally from
bar 4 to bar 5.
Bar 10 was a bull trend bar that broke out above the bar 9 pullback from the attempted breakout above bar 5. Every trend bar is a breakout bar
and a gap bar, and here bar 10 functioned as a breakout gap and a measuring gap. Although bar 11 spiked below bar 10, the move down was
unlikely to have much follow-through as a failed breakout bar, because the signal bar was the third consecutive strong bull trend bar. This was too
much momentum to be a reliable short. The market tested into the gap above bar 9 again at bar 12, and this pullback gave traders a potential
measuring gap. The market turned down at bar 13, about 3 percent below the target based on the move up from the bar 8 low to the middle of that
gap. It might be in the process of forming a two-bar reversal, which could lead to a deeper correction that could have a couple of legs and last for
10 or more bars. Since bar 13 was the sixth consecutive bull trend bar, the momentum up was still strong. When this much strength occurs after a
protracted bull trend, it sometimes represents a climactic exhaustion of the trend and is followed by a large correction. This is a reasonable area to
take partial or full profits on longs, but not yet a strong enough setup for traders to be initiating shorts based on this monthly chart. However, since
there is not yet a clear top, the market might have another push up to the measured move target based on the bar 10 gap.
Although it is too early to tell, traders might be using the bar 8 low to the bar 9 high to create a measured move target. Although not shown, that
target is just slightly below the target based on the bar 4 to bar 9 bull spike, which the market already exceeded. Traders need to see more bars
before they know whether the high is in or it will reach the target based on the bar 10 gap. If it does, it may or may not find profit takers and shorts,
but since it is a clear measured move magnet, it is a logical area for both to be present.
Figure 8.4
 Measured Moves

As shown in 
Figure 8.4
, the move down to the breakout pullback bear flag around bar 3 was steep, and a reasonable target for a measured move
down is from the top of the leg (bar 2) to the approximate middle of the flag (line C). This projected to line D, which was overshot and led to a
moving average test. You could also have used the bar 1 high for a measurement, but you should generally look at the start of the current leg for
your first target. After the line D target was reached, the line E target based on the bar 1 starting point was hit soon afterward. Note that the move
down to bar 4 from bar 2 was a strong bear trend with no significant trend line break, so it was best to stick to with-trend setups.
The small wedge bear flag around bar 4 was mostly horizontal and therefore a possible final bear flag, but since there had yet to be a sharp rally
(like a gap bar above the exponential moving average), countertrend trades had to be scalps (if you took them at all). You should take them only if
you are a good enough trader to then switch to with-trend trades as soon as one developed. If you are not, you should not be trading countertrend
and instead you should be working hard to take with-trend entries. Just being in the area of a measured move is not enough reason for a
countertrend entry. You need some earlier countertrend strength.
On the second day, there was a flag around bar 10, after the breakout above bar 8. This breakout above the double bottom bull flag projected up
to line H. The first bottom was the one-bar pullback in the spike up from bar 7. If instead you used the bar 7 low of the day, the target would have
been reached shortly after the gap up on the following day.
Once there is a breakout flag, it is wise to swing part of your with-trend trade until the measured move is reached. At that point, consider a
countertrend trade if there is a good setup.
Figure 8.5
 Measuring Gaps
As shown in 
Figure 8.5
, line B is the midpoint of the thin area in between the breakout (the high of bar 2) and the low of the first pullback (the low of
bar 5). The measured move was hit to the exact tick at bar 8.
Line E was the midpoint of a thin area and the market greatly overshot its line F projection. The breakout from the bar 12 bear flag had a huge
thin area down to bar 13, but it was so late in the day that a measured move from its midpoint was unlikely to be reached. However, at that point the
day was clearly a bear trend day and traders should only be shorting unless there was a clear and strong long scalp (there were a couple in the final
hour). The five-bar spike down to bar 13 led to a measured move down, and the low of the day missed it by a tick.
Incidentally, the move to bar 7 broke a trend line, indicating that the bears were getting stronger, and the move to bar 9 broke a major trend line,
setting up the bar 10 lower high test of the trend extreme (bar 8), and the subsequent bear trend that followed.

Chapter 9
Reversals Often End at Signal Bars from Prior Failed Reversals
The entry price of an early reversal that failed is often a magnet for a later, successful reversal. For example, if there is a bear trend and there have
been several bull entries that failed as the market continued to sell off, each of these entry prices and the highs of every signal bar will be targets
once a reversal up finally succeeds. The market will often rally all the way to the highest signal bar's high before having a significant pullback. It is
likely that some traders who entered on those higher signals scaled in as the market went against them and they then used their initial entry as their
final profit target, exiting breakeven on their worst entry and taking profits on all of the lower entries. It might just be that smart traders believe this to
be the case and will dump their longs at those targets, or it might simply be one of the many secret handshakes that all great traders know, and they
exit there simply because they know that it is a reliable recurring pattern for pullbacks to end near earlier entry points. It can also be something of a
“Thank you, God, I will never do this again!” price for traders. They did not exit a losing trade, and their loss kept growing while they kept hoping for
the market to come back to their entry. When it finally does, they exit and swear that they will never make that mistake again.
There is a mathematical basis for just about everything that happens in trading, especially since so much of the volume is generated by software
algorithms that are based on statistical analysis. In the example of that bear trend that reversed up, that earliest buy signal is often at the start of a
bear channel. When a bear channel begins, the directional probability of an equidistant move is at least 60 percent. That means that the market had
about a 60 percent chance of falling 10 ticks before rallying 10 ticks. It can be any size move that is within reasonable reach based on the recent
swings, but the key point is that the market has a downside bias. As the market falls and the momentum slows, the directional probability falls to
around 50 percent when the move down is about half over, but the price of this neutral area is usually not knowable until after the market forms a
trading range. As it continues to fall down to some significant magnet, the directional probability overshoots neutrality and actually shifts in favor of
the bulls. In the middle of the trading range, there is uncertainty; but once the market hits the bottom, there is agreement that the market went too far.
At this point, the directional probability favors the bulls. It will then rally and begin to form a trading range. The directional probability always favors
the bulls at the bottom of a trading range, and that bottom will be at some key technical price. There are many to choose from as the market is
falling, and most do not lead to a clear buy setup. Some firms will write programs based on one or more technical support levels, and other firms
will use others. When enough key technical areas occur in close proximity, there will be enough volume betting on a reversal to change the
direction. At that point, the math is on your side because you are buying at what will be the bottom of a trading range. The reversal point is never
known with certainty in advance, but it will happen with some kind of reversal pattern; it is important to watch for these patterns when the market is
at key technical levels, like at measured move targets, trend lines, and even higher time frame moving averages and trend lines. This is discussed
further in the chapter on reversals in book 3. It is usually not necessary to look at lots of charts in search of setups because there will be a
reasonable setup on every chart if you are patient, vigilant, and aware of the patterns.
Once the market turns up, it will usually try to form a trading range, and the first possibilities for the top of the incipient trading range are those
earlier long entry prices. The market will try to rally to the top of those bull signal bars. As it is going up, the directional probability falls back to 50
percent, and it continues to fall further as the market gets near the top of the range. Since that top is never known in advance and the middle of the
trading range where the directional probability is neutral is never known in advance, the market overshoots until it hits some technical level where
traders believe it is clearly overdone. This is often at the level of those earlier buy signals. Remember, the directional probability favored the bears
when the price was last there, and when it gets there another time it usually favors the bears once more; that is why the market typically turns down
there again. It is a price where the sellers took control. The rally often forms a double top with one of those earlier entry bars and then turns down, at
least briefly, as the trading range evolves. The market will often go up and down as it searches for uncertainty, which means a neutral directional
probability of 50 percent. At some point, the market will decide that this area no longer represents value for both the bulls and the bears and that it
is a bad price for one side. The market will then trend again until it finds a price that both the bulls and the bears see as a good price at which to
initiate positions.
Figure 9.1
 Earlier Entry Points Are Targets for Pullbacks
The monthly chart of the SPY (an exchange-traded fund that is comparable to the Emini) had a strong bull trend that ended in 2000, but there were
several attempts to reverse into a bear trend as the market continued up (see 
Figure 9.1
). Each of the bear signal bar lows (bars 1, 2, and 3) was a
target for any correction on the way down.
Likewise, the bear trend that ended in 2003 had several failed bull reversal attempts along the way (bars 4, 5, and 6) and the high of each bull
signal bar was a target for any subsequent rally.

Also, the rally from 2003 had several failed bear attempts (bars 7, 8, 9, and 10), and each one was a target in the bear trend that ended in early
2009. That sell-off had several bottom attempts, and the high of each of those buy signal bars (bars 11, 12, and 13) is a target for the current rally.
Finally, the rally up to bar 17 had several attempts at a top (bars 14, 15, and 16), and the bottom of each of those sell signal bars is a magnet on
any sell-off.
None of the targets ever has to be reached, but each is a strong magnet that frequently draws the market back to its level.

Chapter 10
Other Magnets
There are many other price magnets that will tend to draw the market toward them for a test. Here is a list of some. Many of these are discussed
elsewhere in the books. When a market is trending toward a magnet, it is prudent to trade with the trend until the magnet is tested and preferably
overshot. Do not trade countertrend at the magnet unless there has been some prior countertrend strength like a trend line break, or unless the
move is a pullback in a higher time frame trend.
Trend lines.
Trend channel lines.
Any measured move target including a leg 1 = leg 2 projection.
Spike and channel: the start of the channel is usually tested before long.
High, low, open, and close of yesterday.
Swing highs and lows of the past few bars or even days, often setting up double bottom bull flags and double top bear flags.
Breakout points.
Gaps of any kind, including moving average gaps.
The extreme of a trend after every type of pullback (see Chapter 11 on the first pullback sequence).
Trading ranges from earlier in the day or prior days, including tight trading ranges and barbwire: the extremes and the middle often get
tested.
The approximate middle of the range on a trading range day, especially if there is an intraday trading range in that area (a fat area).
Final flags: after the breakout from the flag, the market comes back to the flag and usually breaks out of the other side.
Barbwire.
Entry bar and signal bar protective stops.
Entry price (breakout test).
Huge trend bar opposite extreme (the low of a huge bull trend bar and the high of a huge bear trend bar).
Common profit targets for scalp and swing positions: in AAPL, 50 cents and a dollar; in the 5 minute Emini, five to six ticks for a four-tick
scalp, and three, four, and 10 points for a swing.
A move equal to the size of the required protective stop: if an Emini trade required you to use a 12-tick protective stop to avoid getting
stopped out, expect the move to ultimately reach 12 ticks in your favor.
Daily, weekly, and monthly swing highs and lows, bar highs and lows, moving averages, gaps, Fibonacci retracements and extensions,
and trend lines.
Round numbers like hundreds in stocks (e.g., AAPL at $300) and thousands in the Dow Jones Industrial Average (Dow 12,000). If a
stock quickly moves from $50 to $88, it will likely try to test $100 and usually go to $105 or $110 before pulling back.
Figure 10.1
 Big Trend Bar Extremes Are Magnets
When there is a huge trend bar with small tails, traders who enter on the bar or soon afterward will often put their protective stops beyond the bar. It
is fairly common for the market to work its way to those stops and then reverse back in the direction of the trend bar.
Bar 1 in 
Figure 10.1
 is a huge bull trend bar with a shaved bottom. The market reversed down off the bear inside bar that followed and formed a
higher low, but not before running the protective stops below the low of the trend bar. Smart traders would have shorted the inside bar, but they were
ready to go long above the bar 2 bull reversal bar that hit the stops and then turned the market back up.
Bars 3 and 4 were also huge trend bars with small tails, but neither was followed by an immediate pullback that ran stops.

Part III
Pullbacks: Trends Converting to Trading Ranges
Even when a chart is in a strong trend, it will have periods of two-sided trading, but as long as traders believe that the trend will resume, these are
only pullbacks. These trading ranges are small enough for traders to view them as just brief pauses in the trend, rather than the dominant feature of
the chart. All pullbacks are small trading ranges on the chart that you are viewing, and all trading ranges are pullbacks on higher time frame charts.
However, on the chart in front of you, most attempts to break out of a trading range fail, but most attempts to break out of a pullback succeed. On
higher time frame charts, the trading range is a simple pullback, and if you are trading on that chart, you can trade it like any other pullback. Since
the bars are larger on a higher time frame chart, your risk is greater, and you have to reduce your position size. Most traders prefer to trade off a
single time frame and not switch back and forth taking different-sized positions and using different-sized stops and profit targets depending on the
time frame.
If the market is in a strong trend and everyone expects the trend to continue, why would a pullback ever happen? To understand why, consider the
example of a bull trend. The reversal down into the pullback is due to profit taking by the bulls and, to a lesser extent, scalping by the bears. Bulls will
take profits at some point because they know that it is the mathematically optimal thing to do. If they hold forever, the market will almost always work
back down to their entry price and will eventually go far below, creating a large loss. They never know for certain where the optimum place is to take
profits, and they use resistance levels as their best estimate. These levels may or may not be obvious to you, but because they offer opportunities
to traders, it is important to look for them constantly. Trend scalpers and swing traders, as well as countertrend scalpers, expect the pullback and
trade accordingly. When the market reaches a target where enough bulls think that they should take profits, their lack of new buying and their selling
out of their longs will cause the market to pause. The target can be any resistance level (discussed in the chapters on support and resistance in
Part II of this book), or a certain number of ticks above an important signal bar (like six, 10, or 18 in the Emini). The bar might have a bull body that
is smaller than the bull body of the prior bar, it might have a tail on the top, or the next bar might be a small bar with a bear body. These are all signs
that the bulls are less willing to buy at the top of the swing, that some bulls are taking profits, and that bears are beginning to short for scalps. If
enough bulls and bears sell, the pullback will become larger and the current bar might fall below the low of the prior bar. In a strong bull spike,
traders will expect that the bull trend will immediately resume, so both the bulls and bears will buy around the low of the prior bar. This creates a high
1 buy signal and is usually followed by a new high. As a bull trend matures and weakens, more two-sided trading will develop, and both the bulls
and the bears will expect a pullback to fall for more ticks and last for more bars. The market might form a high 2 buy signal, a triangle, or a wedge
bull flag. This creates a small downtrend, and when it reaches some mathematical target, the bulls will begin to buy again, and the bears will take
profits and buy back their shorts. Neither will sell again until the market rallies far enough for the process to repeat.
Some of the buying also begins to dry up as bulls become unwilling to continue buying only one- to three-tick dips. They grow cautious and
suspect that a larger pullback is imminent. Because they believe that they will be able to buy six to 10 ticks or more below the high, there is no
incentive for them to buy any higher. Also, there is an incentive for them to take partial or full profits because they believe that the market will soon
be lower, where they can buy again and make additional profits as the market rallies to test the most recent high. Momentum programs sense the
loss of momentum and will also take profits and not enter again until momentum in either direction returns. Bears also see the weakening of the
trend and begin to sell above the highs of bars and above swing highs for scalps, and they scale in higher. Once they see more selling pressure,
they will also short below the lows of bars, expecting a deeper pullback.
Most bulls will exit their longs on a weaker sell signal than they would need to take short positions. They initially look to take profits on strength,
like above a swing high or the high of the prior bar or on the close of a large bull trend bar. After taking profits on strength, they will then look to take
profits on the remainder of their positions on weakness, and begin to sell out of their longs below bear reversal bars; they suspect that the pullbacks
will become larger. Most will not join the bears in shorting, because most traders are unable to reverse a trade consistently well. They have been
thinking that the market was going up, and usually need to get out of their longs for several minutes before they can convince themselves that they
should take a trade in the opposite direction. If they believe that the market is only pulling back and not reversing, they will instead look to buy back
their longs once they think that the pullback has ended. Since most cannot or will not reverse, they don't want to be short when they are looking to
buy. If they took the short scalp, they would most likely not be able to reverse back to long, and they would find themselves trapped out of a bull
swing because they tried to make a small bear scalp. It does not make mathematical sense to try to make one point on a low-probability short and
end up missing two to four points on a high-probability long.
In a bull trend, there is a series of higher highs and higher lows. When the trend is strong, bulls will buy for any reason, and many will trail their
protective stops. If the market makes a new high, they will raise their stops to below the most recent higher low. If enough bears short and enough
bulls take profits, the reversal can be stronger than what traders initially expected. This often happens later in a trend, after several prior pullbacks
were followed by new bull highs. However, both the bulls and the bears believe that the market will turn back up above the most recent swing low,
and both will usually buy at or above that low. This results in either a double bottom bull flag or another higher low. The sell-off can be sharp, but as
long as enough traders believe that the bull trend is intact, traders will buy and the market will test the old high, where bulls will take partial or full
profits, and the bears will short again.
As the bull trend matures, traders will only look to buy a deeper correction, and they expect the market to make two-legged corrections, where the
second leg falls below the low of the first. The price action tells traders when a deeper correction like this is likely, and when they believe that it is,
they will no longer trail their protective stops below the most recent swing low. They will look to take profits higher, like above the most recent swing
high, and then look to buy again around that low, reestablishing their longs. It does not make sense for them to rely on a stop below the most recent
higher low once they believe that the market is likely to have a two-legged correction and, therefore, fall below that low. They will exit most or all of
their position before that happens, but still remain bullish. The bull trend is no longer forming higher highs and higher lows. However, this lower low
is usually still above the most recent higher low on a higher time frame chart, so the larger bull trend is still intact. This two-legged pullback is a large
high 2 buy setup, and as the trend matures, these pullbacks get larger and have subdivisions. If the trend has truly reversed, there will be a series of
lower highs and lows, but there is usually a clear reversal (reversals are discussed in book 3). In the absence of a clear reversal, a two-legged down
move is just a type of bull flag and is usually followed by a new bull high. For example, the first leg down might be a small bear spike and the second
leg down is a small bear channel. If the move down is strong, even if it is in a tight, complex channel and is not a bear spike, traders will expect it to

be the first of at least two legs down. Bulls who bought the pullback will take profits below the trend high, and bears will begin to short aggressively
below the old high, expecting a lower high and second leg down.
Once the market begins to make lower highs, the bulls will usually only look to buy deeper pullbacks, and their absence of buying helps to create
those deeper pullbacks. The bears see the same price action, and transition to holding on to their shorts for larger profits, expecting the sell-offs to
become larger. The market repeatedly sells off around (slightly above, at, or below) the old high, but continues to rally from around the old low.
Upside and downside breakout attempts fail, and the market loses its direction, creating near-term uncertainty. This is the hallmark of a trading
range. There will be repeated attempts by the bulls to resume the trend and by the bears to reverse the trend, and 80 percent of both fail. Since a
trading range in a bull trend is just a bull flag on a higher time frame chart, the odds favor an upside breakout. There will always be some pattern
that the bulls and bears will recognize as a sign that the bull trend is about to resume. When a credible one appears, fewer bears will be willing to
scalp shorts on the rally, and the bulls will begin to continue to buy toward the top of the range. With fewer bears willing to short and fewer bulls
willing to sell out of their longs, the rally will break above the trading range. If the breakout is strong, the bears who were building a swing position,
expecting a larger correction or a reversal, will buy back their shorts and not look to short again for at least several more bars. With neither the
scalping nor the swinging bears now shorting and the bulls not taking profits, the market usually runs for about a measured move up, equal to about
the height of the trading range. Bulls will then begin to take profits and bears will again short. If the selling is strong, there will be a pullback, a
trading range, or even a reversal down.
The opposite happens in a bear trend. The pullbacks are initially due to bears taking profits on new lows, but there is always some buying by
aggressive bulls who think that the market will rally far enough for them to make a profitable scalp. Once the market has rallied to some resistance
level, usually in a low 2 or low 3 pattern, the bulls will sell out of their longs as they take profits, and the bears will short again. The bears want the
market to continue to make lower highs and lows. Whenever they see a sharp rally, they will aggressively short when it approaches the most recent
lower high. They sometimes don't short heavily until the market reaches the most recent swing high, which is why double top bear flags are so
common. As long as the market continues to make lower highs, they know that most traders will see the bear trend as being intact, and therefore
likely to be followed by another lower low, where they can take partial or full profits on their shorts. Eventually a pullback will evolve into a trading
range, and there will be some rallies above the most recent lower highs. On a higher time frame chart, there will still be lower highs and lows, but on
the chart that you are trading, this higher high is a sign that the bear trend has lost some of its strength. As bear trends mature and weaken, they
often form two-legged rallies where there is both a higher low and a higher high, but the bear trend is still intact. This is the basis for a low 2 short
setup, which is simply a two-legged rally. There will be some pattern within the range that will tell both bulls and bears that the bear trend is likely to
resume, and it will always be at a resistance level, like a measured move or a trend line. This will make bulls less willing to buy near the bottom of
the range and bears more willing to continue to sell all the way to the bottom. The market then breaks to the downside, the bull scalpers stop buying,
and the bull swing traders sell out of their longs. The market then falls for about a measured move, where the bears will begin to take profits and the
aggressive bulls will once again begin to buy. If the buying by the bulls and the bears is strong enough, there will be a pullback, a trading range, or a
trend reversal up.
The final leg of a pullback is often a micro channel against the trend (a bear micro channel at the end of a bull flag or a bull micro channel at the
end of a bear flag). The breakout of a micro channel usually only goes for a bar or two before there is a pullback, especially if the micro channel has
four or more bars. If the trend is strong, there is often no pullback and therefore entering on the breakout of the micro channel is a reasonable trade.
When the trend is not very strong, the breakout from the micro channel usually has a failure attempt within a bar or two. As is the case with all
breakouts, traders have to assess the strength of the breakout compared to the strength of the signal bar for the failed breakout. If the breakout is
significantly stronger, especially if the underlying trend is strong, the reversal attempt will likely fail and lead to a breakout pullback setup that will
give traders a second chance to enter in the direction of the breakout. If the breakout is relatively weak, like a small trend bar with big tails, and the
reversal bar is strong, especially if the context is likely to lead to a reversal (like a bull flag just below the top of a trading range), the reversal attempt
will probably succeed and traders should take the reversal entry. If the breakout and reversal are about equally strong, and there is no strong
underlying trend, traders will assess the strength of the next bar. For example, if there is a bull flag in the middle of a trading range, and the bull trend
bar that breaks out of the flag is followed by an equally strong bear reversal bar, and the market trades below the low of that bar, traders will
evaluate the appearance of that bear entry bar. If it becomes a bull reversal bar, they will assume that the market is just forming a pullback from the
breakout of the bull flag, and will buy above the high of the bar. If instead it is a strong bear trend bar, especially if it closes on its low and below the
low of the bull breakout bar, traders will see the pattern as a bear breakout and look to get short, if they did not already short below the bear
reversal bar.
In the strictest sense, a pullback is a bar that moves against the trend enough to take out the prior bar's extreme. In a bull trend, a pullback is a
move where a bar extends at least one tick below the low of the prior bar. However, a broader definition is more useful, and any pause (including an
inside bar, an opposite trend bar, or a doji bar) in a trend's momentum should be considered to be a pullback, even though there may be only
sideways action and not an actual move backward. As even the strongest trend progresses, it at some point begins to give evidence of how deep
a pullback will be. Most commonly, it will be an area of two-sided trading. For example, after the spike in a spike and channel bull trend, the market
has a pause or pullback that creates the start of the channel. Once the trend channel ends and a sell-off (pullback) begins, it will usually test down to
the bottom of the channel. That is where bears started selling, and as the bull channel goes above their short entry price, they begin to worry. They
and other bears sell more as the bull trend advances, but once the trend turns down into a pullback, those bears will be very happy to exit all of their
entries at their earliest and lowest short entry price, which was the start of the channel. Once they are flat, they will not look to sell in that area,
because they saw how far the market rallied after their earlier short trade. However, if they are still bearish, they will short again on a rally. If the rally
ends below the prior high, it will create a lower high and usually leads to a second leg down. If the bears are particularly strong, that lower high could
be the start of a new bear trend and not just a second pullback in an incipient trading range.
The same is true for a wedge at the end of a trend. If a bear trend forms a downward-sloping wedge, the market will try to correct to the top of the
wedge where the earliest bulls began to buy. If the market can reach their earliest entry price, then they can exit that trade at breakeven and with a
profit on all of their lower entries, and they will likely not want to buy until the market falls again. They learned from their first trade that they bought at
too high a price; they did not like riding through the open losses of their long positions as the market continued to fall and do not want to experience
that again. This time, they will wait for a pullback and hope the market forms a higher low or even a lower low. They expect that the original low of
the wedge will be support on any subsequent pullback and that buying near that level with a stop a little below that price gives them an entry with a
defined and limited risk, and they like that.
The tendency of the market in a trend to test the earliest area of two-sided trading allows perceptive traders to anticipate when a pullback might
form and how far it will likely extend. They won't want to enter countertrend at the first sign of two-sided trading, but that two-sided trading tells them
that countertrend traders are beginning to take positions and at some point before too long the market will likely pull back to that price level. After

the trend channel or wedge or stairs pattern begins to develop signs of a reversal (see the chapter on trend reversals in book 3), they will take
countertrend trades and look to exit with a profit in the area where the two-sided trading began (the start of the channel).
Since a pullback is a trend, even though it is usually small compared to the larger trend from which it is pulling back, like all trends it will commonly
have at least two legs. One-legged and three-legged pullbacks are also common, as are small channels and triangles, but all pullbacks are
relatively brief, and traders will expect the trend to resume soon. Sometimes the legs are visible only on a smaller time frame chart, and other times
they are large and each leg breaks down into smaller legs, each of which also has two legs. Because traders expect the major trend to resume
soon, they will fade breakouts in a pullback. For example, if there is a strong bear trend that finally has a pullback with two legs up, there will usually
be far more bears than bulls as the market breaks out above the high of the first leg up. Even though the market is breaking out above a swing high
in a bull trend, the bulls buying the breakout will usually be overwhelmed by bears who will short it, because they expect the breakout to fail and for
the bear trend to resume very soon. They will short on limit and market orders at and above the swing high. They see this breakout as a brief
opportunity to reestablish shorts at a high price. Since 80 percent of attempts to reverse a trend will fail, the odds strongly favor the bears. This is
especially true for the first two-legged pullback in a strong trend.
Any move that has two legs should be traded as if it is a pullback, even if it is with the trend. Sometimes the final leg in a trend is a two-legged,
with-trend move to a higher or lower high in a bull trend or a lower or higher low in a bear trend. For example, if there is a bull trend that has a sell-off
that falls through the bull trend line and this trend line breakout is followed by a two-legged pullback, that pullback simply tests the prior extreme and
can even exceed the old extreme. This means that the pullback from that trend line breakout can result in either a lower high or even a higher high
and still be part of a transition into a new bear trend. Strictly speaking, the bear trend does not begin until after the final high, but that final high is
often just a higher high pullback from the breakout below the bull trend line.
What qualifies as two legs? You can create a line chart based on closes and often clearly see a two-legged move. If you are using bar or candle
charts, the easiest two-legged move to see is one in which there is a countertrend move, then a smaller with-trend move, and then a second
countertrend move (a textbook ABC pullback). So why does the move often reverse after the second leg? Look at a two-legged pullback in a bull
trend as an example. Bulls will buy the new low (the C leg), thinking that the second leg down will be the end of the trend. Also, short scalpers who
were looking for a two-legged correction will be buying back their shorts. Finally, aggressive bulls who bought the low of the first leg down (the A
leg) will now be adding to their long positions on the move to a lower low. If all of these buyers overwhelm the new bears who shorted on the
breakout below the first leg down, a rally will ensue and it will usually test the old high at a minimum.
However, oftentimes the two legs are clearly visible only on a smaller time frame chart and have to be inferred on the chart that you are viewing.
Since it is easier to use a single chart for trading than to be checking multiple charts all day long, traders have an advantage if they can see the two
legs on the chart in front of them, if only by inference.
In a bull market, when there is a series of bull trend bars, a bear trend bar can be assumed to be the first leg of a pullback (the A leg) even if the
low of the bar is above the low of the prior bar. If you examined a smaller time frame chart, a countertrend leg would likely be evident. If the next bar
has a with-trend close but a high below that of the bar that ended the bull swing, then this is the B leg. If there is then a bear bar or a bar with a low
below the low of the prior bar, this will create the second leg down (the C leg).
The more that has to be inferred, the less reliable is the pattern, since fewer traders will see it or have confidence in it. Traders will likely commit
less capital and be quicker to exit.
There is an obvious point here. If the trend that is now pulling back ended in a climax or any significant trend reversal pattern, the trend has
changed and you should not be looking to enter pullbacks in the old trend. It is over, at least for maybe 10 bars or so and maybe for the rest of the
day. So after a strong rally, if there is a wedge top or a lower low after a break of the bull trend line, you should now be looking for setups to short
and not pullbacks in the old bull trend to buy. When it is not clear that there was a probable trend reversal, setups in both directions are likely to
work, at least for scalps. The more likely it is that a trend reversal has taken place, the more important it becomes to avoid trades in the old
direction, since it is now likely that there will be at least two legs in the new direction. Also, the amount of time and number of points in this move will
usually be roughly proportional to the clarity of the reversal. When you have a great reversal setup, you should swing part or, rarely, even all of your
position.
All pullbacks begin with a reversal pattern of some type. It is usually strong enough to entice countertrend traders into taking a position against
the trend, but not strong enough to be a reliable countertrend setup. Since the setup and the pullback are not strong enough to change the direction
of the always-in trade, traders should not be looking for a countertrend trade. Instead, they should be looking for a setup that signifies a possible
end of the pullback and then enter in the direction of the trend. However, since the pullback began with a reversal, many traders would be overly
cautious and talk themselves out of a great trade. You are never going to be 100 percent certain of any trade, but when you are reasonably
confident that a trade looks good, you have to trust the math, take the trade, and simply accept the reality that you will lose some of the time. That is
just the nature of the business, and you cannot make a living as a trader unless you are willing to take losses. Remember, a major league baseball
hitter who fails 70 percent of the time is considered to be a superstar and makes millions off that other 30 percent.
When the market is in a weak trend, or in the early stages of transitioning from a trading range into a trend, it will sometimes have a flag, and then
a flag breakout, and then a pullback, and that pullback becomes another flag. The market will sometimes do this several times before a strong
breakout materializes.
One- and two-bar pauses are more difficult to trade than pullbacks that last many bars and actually pull back from the extreme. For example, if
there is a strong bull move in which the last bar was a small bar with a high just a tick or two below the prior bar's high and that bar was a large bull
trend bar and followed one or two other large bull trend bars, if you buy one tick above this bar, you are buying at the high of the day. Since lots of
institutions fade every new high, there is a substantial risk that the move might reverse and hit your stop before your profit target is reached.
However, if the trend is very strong, this is an important trade to take. Part of what makes this trade so difficult is that you have very little time to
analyze the strength of the trend and to look for possible trend channel line overshoots or other reasons why the trade might fail.
An even more difficult pause is a small doji with a high one tick above the high of the prior strong bull trend bar. Buying above the high of the doji
is sometimes a good trade, but for most traders, it is too difficult to assess risk quickly enough and it is better to wait for a clearer setup. A reason
against buying a pause bar breakout is if the last trend bar or two had fairly large tails, which indicates that countertrend traders were able to assert
some influence. Also, if the prior with-trend entry followed a larger pullback, like a high 2, you should be hesitant since each pullback usually gets
deeper, not shallower. However, if the market just broke out and had three bull trend bars with closes near their highs, then the chance of a
successful scalp when you buy above the pause bar that follows these bars is good. In general, these high 1 longs (or low 1 shorts in bear trends) in
the early stages of a strong bull trend are the only pause bars entries that most traders should consider. Also, remember that a pause bar after a
one-bar breakout is just as likely to be an entry in the opposite direction, since one-bar breakouts often fail, especially if they are countertrend.
If a pullback is small compared to the trend, it is usually safe to enter as soon as it ends. If it is large enough to be a tradable, strong countertrend

move, it is better to wait until a second signal sets up. For example, if there is a protracted bear channel in a strong bull trend, rather than buying the
first reversal back up, it is safer to wait for a pullback from that breakout and buy the breakout pullback.
All bull pullbacks end for a reason, and that reason always is that the market has reached some kind of support. Sometimes they end quietly and
other times with strong trend bars against the main trend and come close to reversing the trend. This is true of large pullbacks, and one- or two-bar
pullbacks from breakouts of small flags. Even the 1987 and 2009 stock market crashes ended at the monthly bull trend line, and were therefore just
pullbacks in a bull trend. Most end at a cluster of support levels, even though many traders may not see some or all of them. Some traders will buy a
pullback in a bull trend because they are focused on one support level, whether it is a bull trend line, a channel line along the bottom of the bull flag,
a prior high or low, some moving average, or any other type of support, and others will buy because they see a different support level in the same
area. Once there are enough buyers coming in to overwhelm the bears, the trend will resume. The same is true of bear pullbacks. They always end
at a cluster of resistance levels, although it is often easy to not see the resistance that the market is seeing. Once the market gets close to the key
price, the vacuum effect often dominates. For example, if buyers believe that the market is getting close to an important support level, they will often
step aside and wait for that level to be hit. This can result in a very strong bear spike, but once the support is hit, the bulls come in and buy
aggressively and relentlessly. The same is true for the bears who created the pullback. They, too, see the support level, and the closer the market
gets to it, the more confident they are that the market will get there. The result is that they sell aggressively and relentlessly until the level is reached,
and then they suddenly stop selling and quickly buy back their shorts. The pullback can end with a large bear trend bar that looks like it might flip the
always-in trade to short, but the follow-through selling over the next bars does not develop. Instead, the bull trend resumes, sometimes slowly at first.
With both the bulls and the bears buying, the reversal can be sharp and go a long way. The vacuum effect is always present, even during the most
dramatic reversals, like the 1987 and the 2009 stock market crashes. In both instances, the market was in a free fall, but strongly reversed up once
the market fell a little below the monthly trend line. As dramatic as both crashes were, they were just examples of the vacuum effect at work.
This same behavior happens on a one- or two-bar pullback from the breakout of a flag. For example, if there is a low 2 bear flag at the moving
average in a strong bear trend and it triggers a short, the entry bar might be followed by a bull trend bar. This represents a failed breakout and could
be the start of a bull trend or a larger bear rally. However, it usually fails, and when a failure fails, it becomes a pullback in the larger trend. Here, it
becomes a breakout pullback short setup. Traders will expect it to fail, and aggressive bears will short on its close and just below and above its
high. More conservative traders will wait for confirmation that this bear trend bar is just a pullback from the breakout of the bear flag. They will short
on a stop below the low of the bear bar, or the next bar or two, if the pullback continues a little longer.
Since a pullback is only a pause in a trend and not a reversal, once you identify what you believe is a pullback, you believe that the trend will
resume and there will be a test of the trend's extreme. For example, if there is a bull trend and then the market sells off for several bars and if you
see that sell-off as a buying opportunity, then you believe that it is just a pullback in the bull trend. You are expecting a test of the bull trend's high. It is
important to note that the test does not have to reach a new high. Yes, it is often a higher high, but it can be a double top or a lower high. After the
test, you will then decide whether the bull trend is intact or has transitioned into a trading range or even a bear trend.
Pullbacks are often strong spikes that make traders wonder if the trend has reversed. For example, in a bull trend, there might be a large bear
trend bar or two that break below the moving average and maybe several ticks below a trading range. Traders will then wonder if the always-in
direction is in the process of flipping to down. What they need to see is follow-through selling in the form of maybe just one more bear trend bar.
Everyone will watch that next bar closely. If it is a large bear trend bar, most traders will believe that the reversal has been confirmed and will start
shorting at the market and on pullbacks. If the bar instead has a bull close, they will suspect that the reversal attempt has failed and that the sell-off
is just a brief, but sharp, markdown in price and therefore a buying opportunity. Beginning traders see the strong bear spike and ignore the strong
bull trend in which it is occurring. They sell the close of the bear trend bar, below its low, any small bounce over the next few bars, and below any low
1 or low 2 sell setup. Smart bulls are taking the opposite side of those trades because they understand what is happening.
The market is always trying to reverse, but 80 percent of those reversal attempts fail and become bull flags. At the time the reversal attempt is
occurring, the two or three bear bars can be very persuasive, but without follow-through selling, the bulls see the sell-off as a great opportunity to get
long again near the low of a brief sell climax. Experienced bulls and bears wait for these strong trend bars and sometimes step aside until one
forms. Then they come into the market and buy because they view it as the climactic end of the selling. The bears buy back their shorts and the bulls
reestablish their longs. This is the opposite of what happens at the end of a trend when the strong traders are waiting for one large trend bar. For
example, in a strong bear trend near a support area, there will often be a late breakout in the form of an unusually large bear trend bar. Both the
bulls and the bears stopped buying until they saw it form. At that point, both buy the sell climax, because the bears see it as a great price to take
profits on their shorts and the bulls see it as a brief opportunity to buy at a very low price.
If traders see what they believe is just a pullback, then they believe that the trend is still intact. When they are evaluating the trader's equation, the
probability is never known with certainty, but since they are making a trade in the direction of the trend, they can assume that the directional
probability of an equidistant move is 60 percent. It might be higher but it is unlikely to be much lower. Otherwise, they would have concluded that the
pullback had lasted so long that it had lost its predictive value and had become an ordinary trading range, which has about an equal probability of
the eventual breakout being up or down. Once they determine their risk, they can then set a profit target that is at least as large as the risk and
reasonably assume that they have about a 60 percent chance or better of being successful. For example, if they are buying a breakout of a bull flag
in Goldman Sachs (GS) and their protective stop is below the bull flag, about 50 cents below their entry, they can assume that they have at least a
60 percent chance of making at least a 50 cent profit on their long. Their profit target might be a test of the bull high. If it is and that high is $2.00
above their entry, they likely still have about a 60 percent chance of success, but now their potential reward is four times their risk, and this creates
a very favorable result from the trader's equation.
Once you believe that the market has reversed, it usually will pull back to test the prior trend's extreme before the new trend unfolds. For example,
assume that there is a bear trend and that the prior pullback was strong enough to break above the bear trend line and now the market is reversing
up from a lower low test of the bear trend's bottom. This is a possible trend reversal into a bull trend. If that first leg up is in the form of a strong
spike, you then believe that the odds of a reversal are now even greater. The pullback from that first strong leg up will usually result in a higher low,
but it can also result in a double bottom with the bear's low or even a lower low. How can it be that you believe that the trend has reversed up into a
bull trend, yet the market has now fallen to a lower low? A lower low is one of the hallmarks of a bear trend, and it can never be a part of a bull trend.
Yes, that is the conventional wisdom, but you stand to make more money as a trader if you use broader definitions. You might stop yourself out of
your long if the market falls below the old bear low, but you might still believe that the bulls really control the market. That spike up was a breakout of
the old bear trend and converted the market into a bull trend. It does not matter if the pullback from the breakout falls below the bear low. Suppose
the market stopped exactly at the old low instead of going one tick lower. Do you really think that is of major importance? Sometimes it is but
usually close is close enough. If two things are similar, they will behave the same. It also does not matter if you consider the bottom of the bull spike
or the pullback to the lower low as the start of the bull trend. Strictly speaking, the spike was the first attempt at a reversal and it failed once the

market fell below the bottom of the spike. However, it was still the breakout that showed that the bulls took control over the market, and it really does
not matter that the pullback fell to a lower low and that the bears briefly regained control. All that matters is that the bulls are in control and will likely
be so for many bars, so you need to be looking to buy pullbacks, even that first pullback to the lower low.
Pullbacks to lower lows in bull trends or higher highs in bear trends are common in the small legs that take place on every chart. For example,
assume that there is a bear trend and then there is a tight channel rally to the moving average that lasts about eight bars. Since the channel is tight,
it is strong and this means that the first bear breakout will likely fail, even though it is in the direction of the trend. Traders usually wait for a pullback
back up before looking to short. However, that pullback will often be in the form of a higher high, creating an ABC pullback in the bear trend. They
will short below the low of the prior bar, confident that a low 2 short at the moving average is a great trade in a strong bear trend. Many traders do
not think of this ABC as a bear breakout (the B leg is the breakout below the channel that constitutes the A leg) and then a breakout pullback to a
higher high (the C leg), but that is what it actually is, if you think about it.
There is a special type of higher high or lower low pullback that is common in major trend reversals, which are discussed in book 3. For example,
if there is a bull trend that has a strong move down below the bull trend line, and then a weak rally (for example, a wedge) to a new high, this higher
high is sometimes the start of a new bear trend. If the trend then reverses down into a bear trend, this weak rally to the higher high is simply a
pullback from the bear spike that broke the bull trend line. That bear spike was the actual start of the bear trend, even though the pullback from the
spike rallied to above the top of the bear spike and created a new high in the bull trend. After the bear trend has gone on for 20 or more bars, most
traders will look back at the higher high and see it as the start of the bear trend, and that is a reasonable conclusion. However, as the trend was
forming, astute traders were wondering if the market had reversed into a bear trend, and they did not care if the rally up from the bear spike tested
the bull high as a lower high, a double top, or a higher high. From a strictly technical perspective, the trend began once the bears took control of the
market during the bear spike and not with the test of the bull high. The confirmation of the trend reversal came once the market sold off strongly from
the higher high. Although the higher high is actually simply a pullback from the bear spike, it does not matter which of the two highs you think is the
start of the bear trend, because you would trade the market the same way and look to short below the higher high. The same is true when a bear
trend reverses into a bull trend from a lower low after a strong rally breaks above the bear trend line. The bulls took control of the market on the
spike that broke above the bull trend line, but most traders would say that the new bull began with the lower low. However, that lower low was simply
a pullback from the strong bull spike.
Any trend that covers a lot of points in very few bars, meaning that there is some combination of large bars and bars that overlap each other only
minimally, will eventually have a pullback. These trends have such strong momentum that the odds favor resumption of the trend after the pullback
and then a test of the trend's extreme. Usually the extreme will be exceeded, as long as the pullback does not turn into a new trend in the opposite
direction and extend beyond the start of the original trend. In general, the odds that a pullback will get back to the prior trend's extreme fall
substantially if the pullback retraces 75 percent or more. For a pullback in a bear trend, at that point, a trader is better off thinking of the pullback as
a new bull trend rather than a pullback in an old bear trend.
The most frustrating thing about waiting for a pullback is that sometimes it never seems to come. For example, when there is a rally and you are
now confident that it would be smart to buy a pullback, the market goes up bar after bar and does not pull back until it has gone so far that now you
think it might reverse instead of pulling back. Why is that? Every bull trend is created by buy programs that use every imaginable algorithm, and
strong trends occur when many firms are running programs in the same direction. Once you are confident that the bull trend is strong, so is
everyone else. Experienced traders understand what is going on, and they realize that any pullback will almost certainly be bought and it will be
followed by a new high. Because of that, instead of waiting for a pullback, they are doing just what the institutions are doing. They are buying at the
market and on tiny pullbacks that are not evident on the chart in front of them. Maybe they are buying on a one- or two-tick pullback. The programs
will keep buying because the probability is that a trend will continue until it reaches some technical level. At that point, the math will favor a reversal.
In other words, the math overshot neutrality and now favors a reversal, and because it does, the firms will aggressively trade in the opposite
direction and the new trend will continue until once again it overshoots neutrality and the odds again favor a move in the opposite direction.
For example, if AAPL is up $4.00 at $280 and it has gone up for seven straight bars on the 5 minute chart, it will probably go up for the eighth bar
and even more. Traders are willing to buy at $280 because they understand the logic of the directional probability of an equidistant move. Since
they are confident that at some point soon the market will be higher than it is right now and they are not confident that it will be lower soon, they buy
at the market and on small dips. Although they may not think in terms of directional probability, all trend trading is based on it. When AAPL is
trending up strongly, they would rather buy at $280 because they believe that the market will reach $281 before it falls back to $279. They also likely
believe that it will reach $282 and maybe $283 before it falls back one dollar. They may not think of this in terms of math and the exact probability is
never certain, but in this situation, there is probably about a 70 percent chance that AAPL will go two or three dollars higher before it pulls back one
dollar. That means that if you take this trade 10 times, you will make two dollars in seven cases for $14 profit and you will lose one dollar three
times. Your net profit is $11, or more than a dollar per trade.
If instead they wait for the $1.00 pullback, it might not come until AAPL is at $283. They then could buy it at $282, but that is two dollars worse
than what they could have paid earlier if they just bought at the market.
If after they bought at $280, AAPL fell to $279, many traders would buy more because they believe that the odds are probably better than 70
percent that it would rally to a new high and they could get out of their first long at breakeven and have a dollar profit on their lower entry.
This is important for traders who are waiting to enter on pullbacks. When the trend is strong, it is often better to enter at the market than to wait for
a pullback.
Figure PIII.1
 Pullbacks Begin with Reversals

All pullbacks begin with a reversal, and it is often strong enough so that traders are too afraid to take the with-trend signal when it finally develops. In
Figure PIII.1
, the chart on the left shows what the 5 minute chart looked like at the time of the bar 10 low 2 sell setup at the moving average, and the
chart on the right shows the entire day. Bar 7 was a strong bull reversal bar, and it was followed by a strong two-bar reversal and higher low at bar
9. However, the market had not touched the moving average in more than 20 bars, so the bear trend was strong and the bears were likely going to
look to short a two-legged rally to the moving average, especially if there was a bear signal bar. When the perfect setup finally formed, many
beginners were so focused on bars 7 and 9 that they ignored the bear trend that preceded them, and the reality that a low 2 short at the moving
average where there is a bear signal bar is a reliable sell setup. The rally was created by profit-taking bears and scalping longs, and both planned
to sell into strength on a two-legged pullback to around the moving average. The longs took profits and the bears reestablished their shorts. Nothing
is ever going to be 100 percent certain, but a low 2 at the moving average in a bear trend where there is a bear signal bar is usually at least 60
percent likely to be a successful short for bears who shorted on a stop at one tick below bar 10. In this particular case, the signal bar was only three
ticks tall, so a bear would have been risking five ticks for a test of the bear low, which was about two points lower. Many bears shorted this first
pullback to the moving average with a limit order located one tick below the moving average. Other bears saw this as the first two-legged bear rally,
and therefore expected it to fail. When they saw the bar 9 bull reversal, they placed limit orders to short at or above the bar 8 high and were filled on
the rally to bar 10. They expected any reversal to be the start of a bear flag and thought that any breakout to the upside would be a brief opportunity
to reestablish shorts at a higher price; they aggressively seized that opportunity, overwhelming bulls who bought the breakout above bar 8.
The bar 10 low 2 bear flag broke out with a strong bear trend bar, but was followed by a bar with a bull body. This was an attempt to have the
breakout fail. The bulls wanted the market to form a failed low 2 and then a rally, and flip to always-in long. However, traders know that most reversal
attempts fail, and many shorted the bull close and had limit orders to short above its high. Because the bears did not know whether the market
would trade above the high of this bull bar, if they were hoping to short at or above the bar but wanted to guarantee getting short even if their limit
orders up there did not get filled, many also placed stop orders at one tick below its low. If their limit orders at the high of the bar were filled, many
would have canceled their stop entry orders. If their limit orders were not filled, the stop below the bar would have ensured that they got short. Most
would have already shorted the low 2 breakout, but some would have added on as the market went their way. This is particularly true of
computerized program trading where many programs continue to short as the market continues to fall.
Incidentally, one of the cardinal rules about trading reversals is to exit on the market's second attempt to resume the trend. In this case, it was
premature to expect bar 7 to be a lasting bottom. Once the market formed a low 2 at the moving average, and especially with the bar 10 signal bar
having a bear body, all the longs must exit. Very few had the ability to reverse to short, and those who did not have that ability exited their small long
scalps and missed a big short trade. It is far better to wait patiently to short a rally to the moving average in a bear trend than it is to scalp a long.
Once the bull trend was clear, traders expected the first two-legged pullback to fail. When they saw the bull trend bar after bar 21, they placed buy
limit orders at the bar 21 low, since they expected that the breakout below bar 21 would fail. It would have been the first two-legged move down in a
strong bull trend, and most firsts against a strong trend fail. They also believed that the moving average would be support and that there would be
aggressive buyers there. Their buy limit orders were filled as the market fell to the moving average. Other bulls entered on a buy stop above the bar
23 high, since it was a high 2 buy setup in a bull trend with a bull signal bar at the moving average, which is a very strong buy setup.
The bar 24 bear reversal bar had a tail on the bottom and was slightly less strong than the bull breakout of the bear micro channel from bar 20 to
the bar before bar 23. The breakout bar was a large bull trend bar, and it followed two bull bars. Some traders shorted below bar 24, expecting the
bull breakout to fail. Others waited to see what the next couple of bars would look like. The short entry bar was a strong bear bar but held above the
low of the bull breakout bar, so the market did not yet flip to always in short. The next bar had a bull body, and therefore did not confirm the selling.
Bulls bought above its high, believing that it was a reasonable breakout pullback buy setup at the moving average in a bull trend, or in a bull leg in a
developing trading range.
Figure PIII.2
 Every Pullback Begins with a Reversal

Every pullback begins with some kind of reversal setup. The reversal is needed for many with-trend traders to begin to take profits, and for
countertrend trades to initiate trades. Yes, institutions create the reversal pattern as the with-trend institutions take profits and the countertrend
institutions begin to scale into reversal trades. However, lots of other institutions and traders wait for the early signs of a reversal before initiating
their trades, and the cumulative effect of all traders creates the pullback. If the trend is strong and the reversal setup is weak, the pullback
sometimes lasts only a bar or two, like at bars 3, 9, and 19 in 
Figure PIII.2
. Sometimes it is just a pause and creates a sideways pullback, like bar
7.
There was a four-bar bear spike down to bar 2, but the third and fourth bars had shrinking bear bodies, indicating a loss of momentum. The tails
on bar 2 are a sign of two-sided trading. Some traders thought that this could be signaling an opening reversal and the low of the day and they
bought above bar 2.
The five-bar bull spike up from bar 5 was enough to make most traders believe that the always-in trade had flipped to long. They expected higher
prices, and they believed that any sell-off would be bought aggressively and result in a higher low. However, there were three pushes up to bar 8,
and this wedge top could have two legs down. This resulted in a one-bar pullback that was followed by another strong leg up. Since the rally up from
bar 5 was so strong, many traders believed that any pullback would be bought.
Once everyone believes that there are strong buyers below, they just buy at the market. They don't know if the market will pull back soon but they
do believe that whether or not it does, it will soon be higher. Rather than risk missing too much of the trend, they start buying at the market, and they
keep buying until they think that the market might finally be starting to pull back.
Bar 10 had a couple of doji bars after a parabolic move in a spike and climax bull trend. The five bars up from bar 5 formed the bull spike. It was
also a new high of the day. Some traders began to short what they thought could be the high of the day, but it resulted in only another pullback.
Some traders saw bar 18 as a possible double top with bar 10, and they shorted below the inside bar signal bar. Since there were seven
consecutive bull bodies, most traders expected more uptrend so they bought below the low of that signal bar instead of shorting there.
Bar 26 was a bear reversal bar and a possible lower high after a reversal down through the bar 16 bottom of the trading range. However, more
traders believed that the day was a strong bull trend day and they bought at and below the low of bar 26.
Figure PIII.3
 Breakout Pullbacks
When a channel is steep, it is better not to enter a reversal trade on the breakout through the trend line and instead wait to see if there is a breakout
pullback that sets up a second signal. In 
Figure PIII.3
, the spike up to bar 2 was too steep to short the first breakout below the trend line. Instead,
traders should consider shorting only if there is a breakout pullback that tests the high of the spike. The test can be a lower high, a double top, or a
higher high. Here, there was a higher high just below the moving average at the bar 4 bear reversal bar.
The spike up to bar 6 was also too strong to short on the breakout below bar 6. The bears were hoping for a successful breakout below the bull
trend line with good follow-through to the downside. Instead, traders should wait for a breakout pullback before considering going short. Here, the
bar after bar 6 became an outside up bar, and it was a higher high test of the high of the tight channel from bar 5 up to bar 6. It was followed by a
bear inside bar, forming an ioi (inside-outside-inside) higher high short setup.
The channel from bar 8 up to bar 9 had four consecutive bull trend bars and was therefore too strong to short the first breakout below the channel.
Instead, traders should wait to see what the breakout pullback looked like. It was a lower high at bar 11, and they could go short at one tick below its
low.
The bull channel from bar 12 to bar 14 was very tight and therefore traders should not short the breakout below the trend line. Instead, they should

wait to see if there was a good breakout pullback short setup. Bar 16 formed a lower high test of the channel high, and traders could short as bar
16 fell below the low of the prior bar and became an outside down bar. Alternatively, they could wait for the bar to close. Once they saw that it had a
bear body and it closed below the low of the prior bar, they could short below the low of the bar 16 outside down bar, which is a higher-probability
short since that bear close gave them additional confirmation that the bears were strong.
The sell-off down to bar 17 was in a tight channel and there were seven bars without a bull close. This is too strong to buy the first attempt to
break out to the upside. The breakout pullback was to a lower low at bar 20, and the buy setup was an ii (inside-inside) pattern.
The rally to bar 21 was in a steep bull channel with seven bars with higher lows and highs. This is too strong to short the first breakout below the
bull channel. The breakout pullback to bar 23 formed a double top with the bar 21 channel high. The following bar was a strong bear inside bar,
which was a good signal bar for the breakout pullback short.
The move down to bar 5 was a bull flag, and it was followed by a breakout and then a pullback to bar 8, which was at the bottom of another bull
flag. It then broke out to bar 9 and formed another pullback to bar 12, which was another bull flag buy setup. The market often has breakouts that
lead to pullbacks that become flags. This usually happens in weaker trends and in trading ranges, as it did here.
Although bars 5 and 12 were strong bear trend bars and attempts to flip the always-in position to short, they did what most such attempts do—
they failed. The bears needed one more strong bear trend bar before they could convince traders that the short-term trend was down and lower
prices were likely over the next several bars. When it became clear that the bulls were buying relentlessly and the bears could not push the market
down, they bought back their shorts. Their buying, combined with the continued buying by the bulls who saw the strong bear trend bars as great
opportunities to buy at a low price, resulted in the resumption of the bull trend. Bulls like to see strong bear trend bars into support. They know that
they represent attempts by the bears to reverse the trend and that most will be brief and fail. They often step aside and wait for one to form, and
they see it as a likely end of the pullback. This gives them a brief opportunity to buy at a low price. Experienced traders can buy at the close of the
bear trend bar, at and below its low, and at the close of the next couple of bars. Most traders should instead wait for a bull reversal bar and buy
above its high, or wait for the reversal up, and then buy above a pullback from the breakout of the bull flag (like above the two-bar sideways pullback
that followed the bar 13 breakout of the bar 12 high 2 bull flag).

Chapter 11
First Pullback Sequence: Bar, Minor Trend Line, Moving Average, Moving
Average Gap, Major Trend Line
There are many types of pullbacks that can occur in a trend, some shallow and others deep, and they can be classified and ranked in terms of their
extent. The first time any one of them appears is a first pullback for that type of pullback. Each subsequent pullback will be the first one of a larger
variety, and each one will usually be followed by a test of the trend extreme since strong moves generally have at least two legs. Each type of first
countertrend move will therefore likely be followed by another leg in the trend. The pullbacks don't have to occur in the exact same order. For
example, sometimes a high 1 will occur after a high 2 if the trend accelerated after the high 2.
As a bull trend progresses, it eventually loses momentum, becomes more two-sided, and starts to have pullbacks. The pullbacks become larger
and evolve into a trading range, and eventually a trading range will reverse into a bear trend. Prior to the final reversal, each countertrend move is
usually followed by another high in the trend. Therefore, each sign of weakness is theoretically a buy setup, and each can occur several times
before any other on the following list develops. Also, one can occur and then occur again later after others have occurred.
Here is the general order in which signs of weakness in a bull trend develop:
The bull bodies become smaller.
Tails start to form on the tops of bars, and the tails become larger on subsequent bars.
Bars overlap their respective prior bars more than they did earlier.
A bar has a very small body or a doji body.
A bar has a bear body.
The high of the current bar is at or below the high of prior bar.
The low of the current bar is at or just above the low of the prior bar.
The low of the current bar is below the low of the prior bar.
There is a one-legged pullback (a high 1 buy setup), where the high of the bar is below the high of the prior bar.
There is a two-legged pullback (a high 2 buy setup) lasting only five to about 10 bars.
There is a three-legged pullback (a wedge bull flag or a triangle) lasting only five to about 15 bars.
There is a break of a minor bull trend line.
A bar touches the moving average (a 20 gap bar buy setup).
The next rally to a new high has one or more bear trend bars and a pullback or two.
A bar has a close below the moving average.
A bar has a high below the moving average (a moving average gap bar).
There is a break of a major bull trend line.
Once there is a bar with a high below the moving average, there is a second leg down before the market gets back above the moving
average.
The rally to the new high has two or more pullbacks, each lasting two or three bars and having more prominent bear bodies.
There is a larger two-legged pullback, lasting more than 10 bars, with the second leg down falling below a prominent higher low, forming
a lower low.
The market enters a trading range, and the bull and bear bars are about equally prominent.
The market breaks above the trading range and comes back into the trading range, forming a larger trading range.
This is the sequence of weakening of a bear trend:
The bear bodies become smaller.
Tails start to form on the bottoms of bars, and the tails become larger on subsequent bars.
Bars overlap their respective prior bars more than they did earlier.
A bar has a very small body or a doji body.
A bar has a bull body.
The low of the current bar is at or above the low of prior bar.
The high of the current bar is at or just below the high of the prior bar.
The high of the current bar is above the high of the prior bar.
There is a one-legged pullback (a low 1 sell setup), where the low of the bar is above the low of the prior bar.
There is a two-legged pullback (a low 2 sell setup) lasting only five to about 10 bars.
There is a three-legged pullback (a wedge bear flag or a triangle) lasting only five to about 15 bars.
There is a break of a minor bear trend line.
A bar touches the moving average (a 20 gap bar sell setup).
The next rally to a new low has one or more bull trend bars and a pullback or two.
A bar has a close above the moving average.
A bar has a low above the moving average (a moving average gap bar).
There is a break of a major bear trend line.
Once there is a bar with a low above the moving average, there is a second leg up before the market gets back below the moving
average.

The sell-off to the new low has two or more pullbacks, each lasting two or three bars and having more prominent bull bo